risk factors 35 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we (primarily through kmp) regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions and approval of the parties' respective boards of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we own and manage a diversified portfolio of energy transportation and storage assets. our operations are conducted through the following reportable business segments, the first five of which are also business segments of kmp. these segments are as follows: products pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 8,400 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines that deliver gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel and natural gas liquids to various markets; plus approximately 60 associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix processing facilities serving customers across the united states; natural gas pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 16,200 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines and gathering lines, plus natural gas storage, treating and processing facilities, through which natural gas is gathered, transported, stored, treated, processed and sold; co 2 kmp which produces, markets and transports, through approximately 2,000 miles of pipelines, carbon dioxide to oil fields that use carbon dioxide to increase production of oil; owns interests in and/or operates eight oil fields in west texas; and owns and operates a 450-mile crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals kmp which consists of approximately 115 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 35 rail transloading and materials handling facilities located throughout the united states and portions of canada, which together transload, store and deliver a wide variety of bulk, petroleum, petrochemical and other liquids products for customers across the united states and canada; 14 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k kinder morgan canada kmp which t ransports crude oil and refined petroleum products through over 2,500 miles of pipelines from alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, the state of washington and the rocky mountains and central regions of the united states; plus five associated product terminal facilities; and ngpl pipeco llc which consists of our 20% interest in ngpl pipeco llc, the owner of natural gas pipeline company of america llc and certain affiliates, collectively referred to as natural gas pipeline company of america or ngpl, a major interstate natural gas pipeline and storage system, which we operate. prior to february 15, 2008, we owned 100% of ngpl pipeco llc. during the historical periods prior to 2011 presented in this report, we had a business segment referred to as power, which consisted of our ownership of natural gas-fired electric generation facilities. on october 22, 2010, we sold our facility located in michigan, referred to as triton power, for approximately $15.0 million in cash, and as a result, we no longer report power as a business segment. products pipelines kmp the products pipelines kmp segment consists of kmp's refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids pipelines and their associated terminals, southeast terminals, and its transmix processing facilities. west coast products pipelines kmp's west coast products pipelines include the sfpp, l.p. operations (often referred to in this report as the pacific operations), the calnev pipeline operations, and the west coast terminals operations. the assets include interstate common carrier pipelines regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california regulated by the california public utilities commission, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. the pacific operations serve six western states with approximately 2,500 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines and related terminal facilities that provide refined products to major population centers in the united states, including california; las vegas and reno, nevada; and the phoenix-tucson, arizona corridor. in 2011, the pacific operations' mainline pipeline system transported approximately 1,071,400 barrels per day of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 59% gasoline, 24% diesel fuel, and 17% jet fuel. the calnev pipeline system consists of two parallel 248-mile, 14-inch and 8-inch diameter pipelines that run from kmp's facilities at colton, california to las vegas, nevada. the pipeline serves the mojave desert through deliveries to a terminal at barstow, california and two nearby major railroad yards. it also serves nellis air force base, located in las vegas, and also includes approximately 55 miles of pipeline serving edwards air force base in california. in 2011, the calnev pipeline system transported approximately 118,800 barrels per day of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 41% gasoline, 33% diesel fuel, and 26% jet fuel. the west coast products pipelines operations include 15 truck-loading terminals (13 on the pacific operations and two on calnev) with an aggregate usable tankage capacity of approximately 15.3 million barrels. the truck terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. the west coast terminals are fee-based terminals located in the seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas along the west coast of the united states with a combined total capacity of approximately 9.1 million barrels of storage for both petroleum products and chemicals. kmp's west coast products pipelines and associated west coast terminals together handled 17.6 million barrels of ethanol in 2011. combined, the west coast products pipelines operations' pipelines transport approximately 1.2 million barrels per day of refined petroleum products, providing pipeline service to approximately 29 customer-owned terminals, 11 commercial airports and 15 military bases. the pipeline systems serve approximately 70 shippers in the refined petroleum products market, the largest customers being major petroleum companies, independent refiners, and the united states military. the majority of refined products supplied to the west coast product pipelines come from the major refining centers around los angeles, san francisco, west texas and puget sound, as well as from waterborne terminals and connecting pipelines located near these refining centers. plantation pipe line company kmp owns approximately 51% of plantation pipe line company, the sole owner of the approximately 3,100-mile refined petroleum products plantation pipeline system serving the southeastern united states. kmp operates the system 15 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k pursuant to agreements with plantation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, plantation services llc. the plantation pipeline system originates in louisiana and terminates in the washington, d.c. area. it connects to approximately 130 shipper delivery terminals throughout eight states and serves as a common carrier of refined petroleum products to various metropolitan areas, including birmingham, alabama; atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; and the washington, d.c. area. an affiliate of exxonmobil corporation owns the remaining approximately 49% ownership interest, and exxonmobil has historically been one of the largest shippers on the plantation system both in terms of volumes and revenues. in 2011, plantation delivered approximately 518,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum products, with the product mix being approximately 67% gasoline, 20% diesel fuel, and 13% jet fuel. products shipped on plantation originate at various gulf coast refineries from which major integrated oil companies and independent refineries and wholesalers ship refined petroleum products, from other products pipeline systems, and via marine facilities located along the mississippi river. plantation ships products for approximately 30 companies to terminals throughout the southeastern united states. plantation's principal customers are gulf coast refining and marketing companies, and fuel wholesalers. central florida pipeline kmp's central florida pipeline system consists of a 110-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline that transports gasoline and ethanol, and an 85-mile, 10-inch diameter pipeline that transports diesel fuel and jet fuel from tampa to orlando. kmp central florida pipeline operations also include two separate liquids terminals located in tampa and taft, florida, which kmp owns and operates. in addition to being connected to the tampa terminal, kmp's central florida pipeline system is connected to terminals owned and operated by transmontaigne, citgo, bp, and marathon petroleum. the 10-inch diameter pipeline is connected to kmp's taft terminal (located near orlando), has an intermediate delivery point at intercession city, florida, and is also the sole pipeline supplying jet fuel to the orlando international airport in orlando, florida. in 2011, the pipeline system transported approximately 93,000 barrels per day of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 69% gasoline and ethanol, 11% diesel fuel, and 20% jet fuel. kmp's tampa terminal contains approximately 1.6 million barrels of refined products storage capacity and is connected to two ship dock facilities in the port of tampa. kmp's taft terminal contains approximately 0.8 million barrels of storage capacity, for gasoline, ethanol, and diesel fuel for further movement into trucks. cochin pipeline system kmp's cochin pipeline system consists of an approximately 1,900-mile, 12-inch diameter multi-product pipeline operating between fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario, along with five terminals. the pipeline operates on a batched basis and has an estimated system capacity of approximately 70,000 barrels per day. it includes 31 pump stations spaced at 60 mile intervals and five united states propane terminals. underground storage is available at fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario through third parties. the pipeline traverses three provinces in canada and seven states in the united states and can transport propane, butane and natural gas liquids to the midwestern united states and eastern canadian petrochemical and fuel markets. in 2011, the pipeline system transported approximately 26,500 barrels per day of propane, and in 2012, kmp expects to begin transporting additional natural gas liquids products. cypress pipeline kmp owns 50% of cypress interstate pipeline llc, the sole owner of the cypress pipeline system. kmp operates the system pursuant to a long-term agreement. the cypress pipeline is an interstate common carrier natural gas liquids pipeline originating at storage facilities in mont belvieu, texas and extending 104 miles east to a connection with westlake chemical corporation, a major petrochemical producer in the lake charles, louisiana area. mont belvieu, located approximately 20 miles east of houston, is the largest hub for natural gas liquids gathering, transportation, fractionation and storage in the united states. the cypress pipeline system has a current capacity of approximately 55,000 barrels per day for natural gas liquids. in 2011, the system transported approximately 45,000 barrels per day. southeast terminals kmp's southeast terminal operations consist of 27 high-quality, liquid petroleum products terminals located along the plantation/colonial pipeline corridor in the southeastern united states. the marketing activities of the southeast terminal operations are focused on the southeastern united states from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee. the primary function involves the receipt of petroleum products from common carrier pipelines, short-term 16 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k storage in terminal tankage, and subsequent loading onto tank trucks. combined, the southeast terminals have a total storage capacity of approximately 9.1 million barrels. in 2011, these terminals transferred approximately 353,000 barrels of refined products per day and together handled 9.2 million barrels of ethanol. transmix operations kmp's transmix operations include the processing of petroleum pipeline transmix, a blend of dissimilar refined petroleum products that have become co-mingled in the pipeline transportation process. during pipeline transportation, different products are transported through the pipelines abutting each other, and generate a volume of different mixed products called transmix. kmp processes and separates pipeline transmix into pipeline-quality gasoline and light distillate products at six separate processing facilities located in colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; wood river, illinois; and greensboro, north carolina. combined, kmp's transmix facilities processed approximately 10.6 million barrels of transmix in 2011. competition kmp's products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. kmp's products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and its transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. natural gas pipelines kmp the natural gas pipelines kmp business segment contains both interstate and intrastate pipelines. its primary businesses consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating. within this segment, kmp owns approximately 16,200 miles of natural gas pipelines and associated storage and supply lines that are strategically located at the center of the north american pipeline grid. kmp's transportation network provides access to the major gas supply areas in the western united states, texas and the midwest, as well as major consumer markets. texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group and other texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the texas gulf coast, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems: (i) kinder morgan texas pipeline; (ii) kinder morgan tejas pipeline; (iii) mier-monterrey mexico pipeline; and (iv) kinder morgan north texas pipeline. the two largest systems in the group are the kinder morgan texas pipeline and the kinder morgan tejas pipeline. these pipelines essentially operate as a single pipeline system, providing customers and suppliers with improved flexibility and reliability. the combined system includes approximately 6,000 miles of intrastate natural gas pipelines with a peak transport and sales capacity of approximately 5.5 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas and approximately 144 billion cubic feet of on-system natural gas storage capacity, including 11 billion cubic feet contracted from a third party (which will be reduced to 5 billion cubic feet in april 2012). in addition, the combined system (i) has facilities to both treat approximately 180 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide removal, and to process approximately 65 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for liquids extraction and (ii) holds contractual rights to process natural gas at certain third party facilities. the mier-monterrey pipeline consists of a 95-mile natural gas pipeline that stretches from the international border between the united states and mexico in starr county, texas, to monterrey, mexico and can transport up to 375 million cubic feet per day. the pipeline connects to a 1,000-megawatt power plant complex and to the pemex natural gas transportation system. the mier-monterrey pipeline has entered into a long-term contract (expiring in 2018) with pemex, which has subscribed for all of the pipeline's capacity. the kinder morgan north texas pipeline consists of an 82-mile pipeline that transports natural gas from an interconnect with the facilities of natural gas pipeline company of america llc (a 20%-owned equity investee of kmi and referred to in this report as ngpl) in lamar county, texas to a 1,750-megawatt electricity generating facility located in forney, texas, 15 miles east of dallas, texas. it has the capacity to transport 325 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and is fully subscribed under a long-term contract that expires in 2032. the system is bi-directional, permitting deliveries of additional supply from the barnett shale area to ngpl's pipeline as well as power plants in the area. 17 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k texas is one of the largest natural gas consuming states in the country. the natural gas demand profile in the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group's market area is primarily composed of industrial (including on-site cogeneration facilities), merchant and utility power, and local natural gas distribution consumption. the industrial demand is primarily year-round load. merchant and utility power demand peaks in the summer months and is complemented by local natural gas distribution demand that peaks in the winter months. collectively, the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline system primarily serves the texas gulf coast by selling, transporting, processing and treating natural gas from multiple onshore and offshore supply sources to serve the houston/beaumont/port arthur/austin industrial markets, local natural gas distribution utilities, electric utilities and merchant power generation markets. it serves as a buyer and seller of natural gas, as well as a transporter of natural gas. in 2011, the four natural gas pipeline systems in the texas intrastate group provided an average of approximately 2.23 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas transport services. the texas intrastate group also sold approximately 804.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 2011. the purchases and sales of natural gas are primarily priced with reference to market prices in the consuming region of the system. the difference between the purchase and sale prices is the rough equivalent of a transportation fee and fuel costs. generally, kmp purchases natural gas directly from producers with reserves connected to its intrastate natural gas system in south texas, east texas, west texas, and along the texas gulf coast. in addition, the texas intrastate group also purchases gas at interconnects with third-party interstate and intrastate pipelines. while the texas intrastate group does not produce gas, it does maintain an active well connection program in order to offset natural declines in production along its system and to secure supplies for additional demand in its market area. the texas intrastate system has access to both onshore and offshore sources of supply, and is well positioned to interconnect with liquefied natural gas projects currently under development by others along the texas gulf coast. the texas intrastate group also has access to markets within and outside of texas through interconnections with numerous interstate natural gas pipelines. kinder morgan treating l.p. kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan treating, l.p., owns and operates (or leases to producers for operation) treating plants that remove impurities (such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide) and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas before it is delivered into gathering systems and transmission pipelines to ensure that it meets pipeline quality specifications. additionally, its subsidiary km treating production llc designs, constructs, and sells custom and stock natural gas treating plants. combined, kmp's rental fleet of treating assets include approximately 213 natural gas amine-treating plants, approximately 56 hydrocarbon dew point control plants, and more than 140 mechanical refrigeration units that are used to remove impurities and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas streams prior to entering transmission pipelines. in addition, on november 30, 2011, kmp acquired certain natural gas treating assets from southtex treaters, inc., a leading manufacturer, designer and fabricator of natural gas treating plants. further information about this acquisition is discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments natural gas pipelines kmp. kinderhawk field services llc and eaglehawk field services llc on july 1, 2011, kmp acquired from petrohawk energy corporation both the remaining 50% equity ownership interest in kinderhawk field services llc that kmp did not already own and a 25% equity ownership interest in eaglehawk field services llc. further information about this acquisition is discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments natural gas pipelines kmp. on august 25, 2011, mining and oil company bhp billiton completed its previously announced acquisition of petrohawk energy corporation through a short-form merger under delaware law. the merger was closed with petrohawk being the surviving corporation as a wholly owned subsidiary of bhp billiton. the acquisition will not affect the terms of kmp's contracts with petrohawk. kinderhawk field services llc gathers and treats natural gas in the haynesville shale gas formation located in northwest louisiana. its assets currently consist of more than 450 miles of natural gas gathering pipeline currently in service, with average throughput of approximately 1.1 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas. ultimately, kinderhawk is expected to have approximately 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of throughput capacity, which will make it one of the largest natural gas gathering and treating systems in the united states. additionally, the system's natural gas amine treating plants have a current capacity of approximately 2,600 gallons per minute. kinderhawk owns life of lease dedications to gather and treat all of petrohawk's operated haynesville and bossier shale gas production in northwest louisiana at agreed upon rates, as well as minimum volume commitments from petrohawk for a five year term that expires in may 2015. during 2011, kinderhawk executed firm gathering and treating 18 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k agreements with a third-party producer for the long-term dedication of five sections. kinderhawk also holds additional third-party gas gathering and treating commitments. in total, these contracts provide for the dedication of 36 sections, from four shippers, for three to ten years. eaglehawk field services llc provides natural gas gathering and treating services in the eagle ford shale formation in south texas. petrohawk operates eaglehawk field services llc and owns the remaining 75% ownership interest. eaglehawk owns two midstream gathering systems in and around petrohawk's hawkville and black hawk areas of the eagle ford shale formation and combined, its assets consist of more than 280 miles of gas gathering pipelines and approximately 140 miles of condensate lines. it also has a life of lease dedication of petrohawk's eagle ford reserves that will provide petrohawk and other eagle ford producers with natural gas and condensate gathering, treating and condensate stabilization services. endeavor gathering llc kmp owns a 40% equity interest in endeavor gathering llc, which provides natural gas gathering service to gmx resources' exploration and production activities in its cotton valley sands and haynesville/bossier shale horizontal well developments located in east texas. gmx resources, inc. operates and owns the remaining 60% ownership interest in endeavor gathering llc. endeavor's gathering system consists of over 100 miles of gathering lines and 25,000 horsepower of compressors that collect and compress natural gas from gmx resources' operated natural gas production from wells located in its core area. the natural gas gathering system has takeaway capacity of approximately 115 million cubic feet per day. eagle ford gathering llc kmp owns a 50% equity interest in eagle ford gathering llc, which provides natural gas gathering, transportation and processing services to natural gas producers in the eagle ford shale gas formation in south texas. further information about eagle ford gathering llc is discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments natural gas pipelines kmp. upstream operations kmp's natural gas pipelines' upstream operations consist of its casper and douglas, wyoming natural gas processing operations and its 49% ownership interest in the red cedar gas gathering company. kmp owns and operates its casper and douglas, wyoming natural gas processing plants, and combined, these plants have the capacity to process up to 185 million cubic feet per day of natural gas depending on raw gas quality. casper and douglas are the only natural gas processing plants which provide straddle processing of natural gas flowing into kmp's kinder morgan interstate gas transmission llc pipeline system. kmp also owns the operations of a carbon dioxide/sulfur treating facility located in the west frenchie draw field of the wind river basin of wyoming, and includes this facility as part of its casper and douglas operations. the west frenchie draw treating facility has a capacity of 50 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. kmp owns a 49% equity interest in the red cedar gathering company, a joint venture organized in august 1994 and referred to in this report as red cedar. red cedar owns and operates natural gas gathering, compression and treating facilities in the ignacio blanco field in la plata county, colorado. the remaining 51% interest in red cedar is owned by the southern ute indian tribe. red cedar's natural gas gathering system currently consists of approximately 750 miles of gathering pipeline connecting more than 900 producing wells, 104,600 horsepower of compression at 22 field compressor stations and three carbon dioxide treating plants. the capacity and throughput of the red cedar gathering system is approximately 600 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. western interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's western interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the rocky mountain region of the western portion of the united states, consists of the following three natural gas pipeline systems (i) kinder morgan interstate gas transmission pipeline; (ii) transcolorado pipeline; and (iii) kmp's 50% ownership interest in the rockies express pipeline. kinder morgan interstate gas transmission llc kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan interstate gas transmission llc, referred to in this report as kmigt, owns approximately 5,100 miles of transmission lines in wyoming, colorado, kansas, missouri and nebraska. the kmigt pipeline system is powered by 23 transmission and storage compressor stations having approximately 155,000 19 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k horsepower. kmigt also owns the huntsman natural gas storage facility, located in cheyenne county, nebraska, which has approximately 35 billion cubic feet of total capacity, consisting of 15 billion cubic feet of working capacity and 20 billion cubic feet of cushion gas. kmigt has 11 billion cubic feet of firm capacity commitments and provides for withdrawals of up to 179 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. under transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, kmigt offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and storage services, including no-notice service and park and loan services. kmigt also has the authority to make gas purchases and sales, as needed for system operations, pursuant to its currently effective ferc natural gas tariff. the kmigt system also offers its cheyenne market center service, which provides nominated storage and transportation service between its huntsman storage field and multiple interconnecting pipelines at the cheyenne hub, located in weld county, colorado. additionally, the kmigt pipeline system includes the colorado lateral, which is a 41-mile, 12-inch pipeline extending from the cheyenne hub southward to the greeley, colorado area. in 2011, kmigt transported an average of approximately 451 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. transcolorado gas transmission company llc kmp's subsidiary, transcolorado gas transmission company llc, referred to in this report as transcolorado, owns a 300-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that extends from approximately 20 miles southwest of meeker, colorado to the blanco hub near bloomfield, new mexico. it has multiple points of interconnection with various interstate and intrastate pipelines, gathering systems, and local distribution companies. the transcolorado pipeline system is powered by eight compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 39,000 horsepower. the system has a pipeline capacity of 1.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas and it has the ability to flow gas south or north. in 2011, kmp's transcolorado pipeline system transported an average of approximately 420 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. the transcolorado pipeline system receives natural gas from a single coal seam natural gas treating plant, located in the san juan basin of colorado, and from pipeline, processing plant and gathering system interconnections within the paradox and piceance basins of western colorado. it provides transportation services to third-party natural gas producers, marketers, gathering companies, local distribution companies and other shippers. pursuant to transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, transcolorado offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and interruptible park and loan services. transcolorado also has the authority to negotiate rates with customers if it has first offered service to those customers under its reservation and commodity charge rate structure. rockies express pipeline kmp operates and owns 50% of the 1,679-mile rockies express natural gas pipeline system, one of the largest natural gas pipelines constructed in north america in the last 25 years. the rockies express system consists of the following three pipeline segments: (i) a 327-mile pipeline that extends from the meeker hub in northwest colorado, across southern wyoming to the cheyenne hub in weld county, colorado; (ii) a 713-mile pipeline from the cheyenne hub to an interconnect in audrain county, missouri; and (iii) a 639-mile pipeline from audrain county, missouri to clarington, ohio. kmp's ownership is through its 50% equity interest in rockies express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the rockies express pipeline system. sempra pipelines &amp; storage, a unit of sempra energy, and conocophillips each own 25% of rockies express pipeline llc. the rockies express pipeline system is powered by 18 compressor stations totaling approximately 427,000 horsepower. the system is capable of transporting 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas from meeker, colorado to the cheyenne market hub in northeastern colorado and 1.8 billion cubic feet per day from the cheyenne hub to the clarington hub in monroe county in eastern ohio. capacity on the rockies express system is nearly fully contracted under ten year firm service agreements with producers from the rocky mountain supply basin. these agreements provide the pipeline with fixed monthly reservation revenues for the primary term of such contracts through 2019, with the exception of one agreement representing approximately 10% of the pipeline capacity that grants a shipper the one-time option to terminate effective late 2014. with its connections to numerous other pipeline systems along its route, the rockies express system has access to almost all of the major gas supply basins in wyoming, colorado and eastern utah. rockies express is capable of delivering gas to multiple markets along its pipeline system, primarily through interconnects with other interstate pipeline companies and direct connects to local distribution companies. central interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's central interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily in the mid-continent region of the united states, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems: (i) trailblazer pipeline; (ii) kinder morgan louisiana pipeline; (iii) kmp's 50% ownership interest in the midcontinent express pipeline; and (iv) kmp's 50% 20 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k ownership interest in the fayetteville express pipeline. trailblazer pipeline company llc kmp's subsidiary, trailblazer pipeline company llc, referred to in this report as trailblazer, owns the 436-mile trailblazer natural gas pipeline system. the trailblazer pipeline system originates at an interconnection with wyoming interstate company ltd.'s pipeline system near rockport, colorado and runs through southeastern wyoming to a terminus near beatrice, nebraska where it interconnects with ngpl's and northern natural gas company's pipeline systems. ngpl manages, maintains and operates the trailblazer system for kmp, for which it is reimbursed at cost. trailblazer offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation, and in 2011, it transported an average of approximately 717 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. all of the system's firm transport capacity is currently subscribed. kinder morgan louisiana pipeline kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan louisiana pipeline llc owns the kinder morgan louisiana natural gas pipeline system. the pipeline system provides approximately 3.2 billion cubic feet per day of take-away natural gas capacity from the cheniere sabine pass liquefied natural gas terminal located in cameron parish, louisiana, and transports natural gas to various delivery points located in cameron, calcasieu, jefferson davis, acadia, and evangeline parishes in louisiana. the system capacity is fully supported by 20 year take-or-pay customer commitments with chevron and total that expire in 2029. the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system consists of two segments. the first is a 132-mile, 42-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas that extends from the sabine pass terminal to a point of interconnection with an existing columbia gulf transmission line in evangeline parish, louisiana (an offshoot consists of approximately 2.3 miles of 24-inch diameter pipeline extending away from the 42-inch diameter line to the florida gas transmission company compressor station located in acadia parish, louisiana). the second segment is a one-mile, 36-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet per day that extends from the sabine pass terminal and connects to ngpl's natural gas pipeline. in 2011, kmp's kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system transported an average of approximately 21 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. midcontinent express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in midcontinent express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the approximate 500-mile midcontinent express natural gas pipeline system. kmp also operates the midcontinent express pipeline system. regency midcontinent express llc owns the remaining 50% ownership interest. the midcontinent express pipeline system originates near bennington, oklahoma and extends eastward through texas, louisiana, and mississippi, and terminates at an interconnection with the transco pipeline near butler, alabama. it interconnects with numerous major pipeline systems and provides an important infrastructure link in the pipeline system moving natural gas supply from newly developed areas in oklahoma and texas into the united states' eastern markets. the pipeline system is comprised of approximately 30-miles of 30-inch diameter pipe, 275-miles of 42-inch diameter pipe and 197-miles of 36-inch diameter pipe. midcontinent express also has four compressor stations and one booster station totaling approximately 144,500 horsepower. it has two rate zones: (i) zone 1 (which has a capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day) beginning at bennington and extending to an interconnect with columbia gulf transmission near delhi, in madison parish louisiana and (ii) zone 2 (which has a capacity of 1.2 billion cubic feet per day) beginning at delhi and terminating at an interconnection with transco pipeline near the town of butler in choctaw county, alabama. capacity on the midcontinent express system is 99% contracted under long-term firm service agreements that expire between 2012 and 2021. the majority of volume is contracted to producers moving supply from the barnett shale and oklahoma supply basins. fayetteville express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in fayetteville express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the fayetteville express natural gas pipeline system. the 187-mile fayetteville express pipeline system originates in conway county, arkansas, continues eastward through white county, arkansas, and terminates at an interconnect with trunkline gas company's pipeline in panola county, mississippi. the system also interconnects with ngpl's pipeline in white county, arkansas, texas gas transmission's pipeline in coahoma county, mississippi, and anr pipeline company's pipeline in quitman county, mississippi . on january 1, 2011, fayetteville express pipeline llc began firm contact pipeline transportation service to its customers. capacity on the fayetteville express system is over 90% contracted under long-term firm service agreements. 21 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in the natural gas pipelines kmp business segment. these operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for attachments to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. kmp believes the principal elements of competition in its various markets are transportation rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other pipeline projects are proposed that would compete with kmp's pipelines, and some proposed pipelines may deliver natural gas to markets it serves from new supply sources closer to those markets. kmp does not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on its operations or profitability. shippers on kmp's natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane and fuel oils. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. co 2 kmp the co 2 kmp business segment consists of kinder morgan co 2 company, l.p. and its consolidated affiliates, collectively referred to in this report as kmco 2 . the co 2 kmp business segment produces, transports, and markets carbon dioxide for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. kmco 2 's carbon dioxide pipelines and related assets allow it to market a complete package of carbon dioxide supply, transportation and technical expertise to its customers. kmco 2 also holds ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and owns a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests kmco 2 holds ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, including: (i) an approximate 97% working interest in the sacroc unit; (ii) an approximate 50% working interest in the yates unit; (iii) an approximate 21% net profits interest in the h.t. boyd unit; (iv) an approximate 65% working interest in the claytonville unit; (v) an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit; and (vi) lesser interests in the sharon ridge unit, the reinecke unit and the midcross unit. the sacroc unit is one of the largest and oldest oil fields in the united states using carbon dioxide flooding technology. the field is comprised of approximately 56,000 acres located in the permian basin in scurry county, texas. kmco 2 has expanded the development of the carbon dioxide project initiated by the previous owners and increased production and ultimate oil recovery over the last several years. in 2011, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at sacroc was 154 million cubic feet per day. the average oil production rate for 2011 was approximately 28,600 barrels of oil per day (23,800 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). the yates unit is also one of the largest oil fields ever discovered in the united states. the field is comprised of approximately 26,000 acres located about 90 miles south of midland, texas. kmco 2 's plan over the last several years has been to maintain overall production levels and increase ultimate recovery from yates by combining horizontal drilling with carbon dioxide injection to ensure a relatively steady production profile over the next several years. in 2011, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at sacroc was 107 million cubic feet per day, and during 2011, the yates unit produced approximately 21,700 barrels of oil per day (9,600 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). kmco 2 also operates and owns an approximate 65% gross working interest in the claytonville oil field unit and operates and owns an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit, both located in the permian basin area of west texas. the claytonville unit is located nearly 30 miles east of the sacroc unit, in fisher county, texas. the unit produced approximately 200 gross barrels of oil per day during 2011 (100 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). during 2011, the katz strawn unit produced approximately 500 barrels of oil per day (400 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). in 2011, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at the katz strawn unit was 46 million cubic feet per day. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which kmp owned interests as of december 31, 2011. the oil and gas producing fields in which kmp owns interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells 22 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k in which kmp has a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by it: productive wells (a) service wells (b) drilling wells (c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,191 1,358 919 699 3 3 natural gas 5 2 - - - - total wells 2,196 1,360 919 699 3 3 ____________ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2011, kmp did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2011. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects kmp's net productive and dry wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 productive development 85 70 42 exploratory - - - dry development - - - exploratory - - - total wells 85 70 42 ____________ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that kmp held as of december 31, 2011: gross net developed acres 74,240 69,558 undeveloped acres 8,788 8,129 total 83,028 77,687 ____________ note: as of december 31, 2011, kmp has no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on kmp's oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests kmco 2 operates and owns an approximate 22% working interest plus an additional 28% net profits interest in the snyder gasoline plant. kmco 2 also operates and owns a 51% ownership interest in the diamond m gas plant and a 100% ownership interest in the north snyder plant, all of which are located in the permian basin of west texas. the snyder gasoline plant processes natural gas produced from the sacroc unit and neighboring carbon dioxide projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units, all of which are located in the permian basin area of west texas. the diamond m and the north snyder plants contract with the snyder plant to process natural gas. production of natural gas liquids at the snyder gasoline plant during 2011 averaged approximately 16,600 gross barrels per day (8,300 net barrels to kmco 2 per day excluding the value associated to kmco 2 28% net profits interest). 23 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k sales and transportation activities carbon dioxide reserves kmco 2 owns approximately 45% of, and operates, the mcelmo dome unit in colorado, which contains more than 6.6 trillion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide. it also owns approximately 87% of, and operates, the doe canyon deep unit in colorado, which contains more than 870 billion cubic feet of carbon dioxide. for both units combined, compression capacity exceeds 1.4 billion cubic feet per day of carbon dioxide and during 2011, the two units produced approximately 1.25 billion cubic feet per day of carbon dioxide. kmco 2 also owns approximately 11% of the bravo dome unit in new mexico. the bravo dome unit contains more than 800 billion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide and produced approximately 300 million cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day in 2011. kmp's principal market for carbon dioxide is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. carbon dioxide pipelines as a result of kmp's 50% ownership interest in cortez pipeline company, it owns a 50% equity interest in and operates the approximate 500-mile cortez pipeline. the pipeline carries carbon dioxide from the mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields near cortez, colorado to the denver city, texas hub. the cortez pipeline transports over 1.2 billion cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day. the tariffs charged by the cortez pipeline are not regulated, but are based on a consent decree. kmco 2 's central basin pipeline consists of approximately 143 miles of mainline pipe and 177 miles of lateral supply lines located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and mccamey, texas. the pipeline has an ultimate throughput capacity of 700 million cubic feet per day. at its origination point in denver city, the central basin pipeline interconnects with all three major carbon dioxide supply pipelines from colorado and new mexico, namely the cortez pipeline (operated by kmco 2 ) and the bravo and sheep mountain pipelines (operated by oxy permian). central basin's mainline terminates near mccamey, where it interconnects with the canyon reef carriers pipeline and the pecos pipeline. the tariffs charged by the central basin pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 's centerline carbon dioxide pipeline consists of approximately 113 miles of pipe located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and snyder, texas. the pipeline has a capacity of 300 million cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged by the centerline pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 's eastern shelf carbon dioxide pipeline, which consists of approximately 91 miles of pipe located in the permian basin, begins near snyder, texas and ends west of knox city, texas. the pipeline has a current capacity of 70 million cubic feet per day, expandable to 200 million cubic feet per day in the future. the eastern shelf pipeline system is currently flowing 56 million cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged on the eastern shelf pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 also owns a 13% undivided interest in the 218-mile, bravo pipeline, which delivers carbon dioxide from the bravo dome source field in northeast new mexico to the denver city hub and has a capacity of more than 350 million cubic feet per day. tariffs on the bravo pipeline are not regulated. occidental petroleum (81%) and xto energy (6%) hold the remaining ownership interests in the bravo pipeline. in addition, kmco 2 owns approximately 98% of the canyon reef carriers pipeline and approximately 69% of the pecos pipeline. the canyon reef carriers pipeline extends 139 miles from mccamey, texas, to the sacroc unit in the permian basin. the pipeline has a capacity of approximately 270 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units. the pecos pipeline is a 25-mile pipeline that runs from mccamey to iraan, texas. it has a capacity of approximately 120 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the yates unit. the tariffs charged on the canyon reef carriers and pecos pipelines are not regulated. the principal market for transportation on kmp's carbon dioxide pipelines is to customers, including itself, using carbon dioxide for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. 24 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k crude oil pipeline kmco 2 's owns the kinder morgan wink pipeline, a 450-mile texas intrastate crude oil pipeline system consisting of three mainline sections, two gathering systems and numerous truck delivery stations. the pipeline allows kmco 2 to better manage crude oil deliveries from its oil field interests in west texas. kmco 2 has entered into a long-term throughput agreement with western refining company, l.p. to transport crude oil into western's 120,000 barrel per day refinery located in el paso, texas. the throughput agreement expires in 2034. the 20-inch diameter pipeline segment that runs from wink to el paso, texas has a total capacity of 130,000 barrels of crude oil per day, and it transported approximately 112,000 barrels of oil per day in 2011. the kinder morgan wink pipeline is regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission. competition kmp's primary competitors for the sale of carbon dioxide include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain carbon dioxide reserves, and petro-source carbon company, which gathers waste carbon dioxide from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. kmp's ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other carbon dioxide pipelines. kmp also competes with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of carbon dioxide to the denver city, texas market area. terminals kmp the terminals kmp business segment includes the operations of kmp's petroleum, chemical and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines kmp business segment) and all of its coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. combined, the segment is composed of approximately 115 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 35 rail transloading and materials handling facilities. the terminals are located throughout the united states and in portions of canada. kmp believes the location of its facilities and its ability to provide flexibility to customers helps keep customers at kmp terminals and provides it opportunities for expansion. kmp often classifies its terminal operations based on their handling of either liquids or bulk material products. liquids terminals kmp's liquids terminals operations primarily store refined petroleum products, petrochemicals, ethanol, industrial chemicals and vegetable oil products in aboveground storage tanks and transfer products to and from pipelines, vessels, tank trucks, tank barges, and tank railcars. combined, kmp's approximately 25 liquids terminals facilities possess liquids storage capacity of approximately 60.2 million barrels, and in 2011, these terminals handled approximately 616 million barrels of liquids products, including petroleum products, ethanol and chemicals. bulk terminals kmp's bulk terminal operations primarily involve dry-bulk material handling services. kmp also provides conveyor manufacturing and installation, engineering and design services, and in-plant services covering material handling, conveying, maintenance and repair, truck-railcar-marine transloading, railcar switching and miscellaneous marine services. kmp owns or operates approximately 90 dry-bulk terminals in the united states and canada, and combined, its dry-bulk and material transloading facilities (described below) handled approximately 100.6 million tons of coal, petroleum coke, fertilizers, steel, ores and other dry-bulk materials in 2011. materials services (rail transloading) kmp's materials services operations include rail or truck transloading shipments from one medium of transportation to another conducted at approximately 35 owned and non-owned facilities. the burlington northern santa fe, csx, norfolk southern, union pacific, kansas city southern and a&amp;w railroads provide rail service for these terminal facilities. approximately 50% of the products handled are liquids, including an entire spectrum of liquid chemicals, and the rest are dry-bulk products. many of the facilities are equipped for bi-modal operation (rail-to-truck, and truck-to-rail) or connect via pipeline to storage facilities. several facilities provide railcar storage services. kmp also designs and builds transloading facilities, performs inventory management services, and provides value-added services such as blending, heating and sparging. 25 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k competition kmp is one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in the united states, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. kmp's liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical and pipeline companies. kmp's bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminal services. in some locations, kmp's competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. kmp's rail transloading (material services) operations compete with a variety of single- or multi-site transload, warehouse and terminal operators across the united states. kmp's ethanol rail transload operations compete with a variety of ethanol handling terminal sites across the united states, many offering waterborne service, truck loading, and unit train capability serviced by class 1 rail carriers. kinder morgan canada kmp the kinder morgan canada kmp business segment includes the trans mountain pipeline system, kmp's ownership of a one-third interest in the express pipeline system, and the 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. the weighted average remaining life of the shipping contracts on these pipeline systems was approximately two years as of december 31, 2011. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. trans mountain's pipeline is 715 miles in length. kmp also owns a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300,000 barrels per day when heavy crude represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude percentage), to 400,000 barrels per day with no heavy crude. trans mountain is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. kmp believes these facilities provide it the opportunity to consider capacity expansions to the west coast, either in stages or as one project, as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in 2011, trans mountain delivered an average of 274,000 barrels per day. the crude oil and refined petroleum products transported through trans mountain's pipeline system originates in alberta and british columbia. the refined and partially refined petroleum products transported to kamloops, british columbia and vancouver originates from oil refineries located in edmonton. petroleum products delivered through trans mountain's pipeline system are used in markets in british columbia, washington state and elsewhere offshore. trans mountain also operates a 5.3 mile spur line from its sumas pump station to the u.s. canada international border where it connects with kmp's approximate 63-mile, 16-inch to 20-inch diameter puget sound pipeline system. the puget sound pipeline system in the state of washington has a sustainable throughput capacity of approximately 135,000 barrels per day when heavy crude represents approximately 25% of throughput, and it connects to four refineries located in northwestern washington state. the volumes of crude oil shipped to the state of washington fluctuate in response to the price levels of canadian crude oil in relation to crude oil produced in alaska and other offshore sources. in january 2012, trans mountain completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement effective for the period beginning january 1, 2012 and ending december 31, 2012. trans mountain anticipates national energy board approval in the second quarter of 2012. express and jet fuel pipeline systems kmp owns a one-third ownership interest in the express pipeline system, and a subordinated debenture issued by express us holdings lp, the partnership that maintains ownership of the u.s. portion of the express pipeline system. kmp operates the express pipeline system and accounts for its one-third investment under the equity method of accounting. the express pipeline system is a batch-mode, common-carrier, crude oil pipeline system comprised of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline, collectively referred to in this report as the express pipeline system. the approximate 1,700-mile integrated oil transportation pipeline connects canadian and united states producers to refineries located in the u.s. rocky mountain and midwest regions. the express pipeline is a 780-mile, 24-inch diameter pipeline that begins at the crude oil pipeline terminal at hardisty, alberta and terminates at the casper, wyoming facilities of the platte pipeline. the express pipeline has a design capacity of 280,000 barrels per day. receipts at hardisty averaged 175,000 barrels per day in 2011. 26 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the platte pipeline is a 926-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline that runs from the crude oil pipeline terminal at casper, wyoming to refineries and interconnecting pipelines in the wood river, illinois area. the platte pipeline has a current capacity of approximately 150,000 barrels per day downstream of casper, wyoming and approximately 140,000 barrels per day downstream of guernsey, wyoming. platte deliveries averaged 148,000 barrels per day in 2011. kmp also owns and operates the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15,000 barrels. competition . trans mountain and the express pipeline system are each one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and each competes against other pipeline providers. ngpl pipeco llc we own a 20% interest in ngpl pipeco llc and account for our interest as an equity method investment. we continue to operate ngpl pipeco llc's assets pursuant to an operations and reimbursement agreement effective through february 15, 2023. ngpl pipeco llc owns a major interstate gas pipeline and storage system consisting primarily of two major interconnected natural gas transmission pipelines terminating in the chicago, illinois metropolitan area. ngpl's amarillo line originates in the west texas and new mexico producing areas and is comprised of approximately 4,400 miles of mainline and various small-diameter pipelines. its other major pipeline, the gulf coast line, originates in the gulf coast areas of texas and louisiana and consists of approximately 4,100 miles of mainline and various small-diameter pipelines. these two main pipelines are connected at points in texas and oklahoma by ngpl's approximately 800-mile amarillo/gulf coast pipeline. ngpl is one of the nation's largest natural gas storage operators with approximately 600 billion cubic feet of total natural gas storage capacity, approximately 278 billion cubic feet of working gas capacity and over 4.3 billion cubic feet per day of peak deliverability from its storage facilities, which are located in major supply areas and near the markets it serves. ngpl owns and operates 13 underground storage reservoirs in eight field locations in four states. these storage assets complement its pipeline facilities and allow it to optimize pipeline deliveries and meet peak delivery requirements in its principal markets. competition ngpl competes with other transporters of natural gas in virtually all of the markets it serves including the chicago area, which is the northern terminus of ngpl's two major pipeline segments and its largest market. these competitors include both interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines that source gas from multiple supply basins in the u.s. and canada, and serve multiple markets. from time to time, other pipelines are proposed which would compete with ngpl. we cannot predict whether or when any such pipeline might be built, or its impact on ngpl's operations or profitability. major customers our total operating revenues are derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 kmp business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines kmp and co 2 kmp business segments in 2011, 2010 and 2009 accounted for 40.4%, 44.1% and 43.7%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, kmp attempts to balance the pricing and timing of its natural gas purchases to its natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 27 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on kmp's pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation canadian operations the canadian portion of kmp's crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of canada's national energy board, referred to in this report as the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. trans mountain pipeline. kmp's subsidiary, trans mountain pipeline, l.p., previously had a one-year toll settlement with shippers that expired on december 31, 2011. in january 2012, trans mountain pipeline completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement for kmp's trans mountain pipeline to be effective for 2012. trans mountain anticipates approval from the neb in the second quarter of 2012. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the united states falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations. express pipeline. the canadian segment of the express pipeline is regulated by the neb as a group 2 pipeline, which results in rates and terms of service being regulated on a complaint basis only. express committed contract rates are subject to a 2% inflation adjustment april 1 of each year. the u.s. segment of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline are regulated by the ferc. see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations. additionally, movements on the platte pipeline within the state of wyoming are regulated by the wyoming public service commission, which regulates the tariffs and terms of service of public utilities that operate in the state of wyoming. the wyoming public service commission standards applicable to rates are similar to those of the ferc and the neb. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates to meet competition, so long as 28 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to offer negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of a fixed rate during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, and while rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, the terms and conditions of pipeline transportation and storage services are not generally negotiable. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, through the mid-1990's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to create a more competitive environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; and order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage). the ferc also promulgates certain standards of conduct that apply uniformly to interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities. in light of the changing structure of the energy industry, these standards of conduct govern employee relationships using a functional approach to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis. pursuant to the ferc's standards of conduct, a natural gas transmission provider is prohibited from disclosing to a marketing function employee non-public information about the transmission system or a transmission customer. additionally, no-conduit provisions prohibit a transmission function provider from disclosing non-public information to marketing function employees by using a third party conduit. the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information; (iv) independent functioning; (v) transparency; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the north american energy standards board business practice standards. rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. california public utilities commission rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of kmp's pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the california public utilities commission, referred to in this report as the cpuc, under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by kmp with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to kmp's ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. certain of the pacific operations' pipeline rates have been, and continue to be, subject to complaints with the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 29 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k texas railroad commission rate regulation the intrastate operations of our natural gas and crude oil pipelines in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the texas railroad commission. the texas railroad commission has the authority to regulate our transportation rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. safety regulation our interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by the united states department of transportation, referred to in this report as the u.s. dot, and our intrastate pipelines and other operations are subject to comparable state regulations with respect to their design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management. comparable regulation exists in some states in which we conduct pipeline operations. in addition, our truck and terminal loading facilities are subject to u.s. dot regulations dealing with the transportation of hazardous materials by motor vehicles and railcars. on september 15, 2010, the secretary of the u.s. dot sent to the u.s. congress proposed legislation to provide stronger oversight of the nation's pipelines and to increase the penalties for violations of pipeline safety rules. the proposed legislation entitled strengthening pipeline safety and enforcement act of 2010, would, among other things, increase the maximum fine for the most serious violations from $1 million to $2.5 million, provide additional resources for the enforcement program, require a review of whether safety requirements for high consequence areas should be applied instead to entire pipelines, eliminate exemptions and ensure standards are in place for bio-fuel and carbon dioxide pipelines. the pipeline safety improvement act of 2002 provides guidelines in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the pipeline safety improvement act requires pipeline companies to perform integrity tests on natural gas transmission pipelines that exist in high population density areas that are designated as high consequence areas. testing consists of hydrostatic testing, internal magnetic flux or ultrasonic testing, or direct assessment of the piping. in addition to the pipeline integrity tests, pipeline companies must implement a qualification program to make certain that employees are properly trained. a similar integrity management rule exists for refined petroleum products pipelines. we are also subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act and other comparable federal and state statutes that address employee health and safety. in general, we expect to increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards; however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be accurately estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the united states and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be 30 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the u.s. environmental protection agency, referred to in this report as the u.s. epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $79.7 million as of december 31, 2011. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $79.7 million to approximately $134.7 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the u.s. epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non-hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, also known as cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the u.s. epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. we believe that the operations of our pipelines, storage facilities and terminals are in substantial compliance with such statutes. the u.s. epa adopted new regulations under the clean air act that took effect in early 2011 and that establish requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. these regulations contain lengthy, complex provisions that may result in the imposition over the next several years of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from the operations of our pipelines, treating and processing facilities, storage facilities, terminals and wells. depending on the nature of those requirements and any additional requirements that may be imposed by state and local regulatory authorities, we may be required to incur capital and operating expenditures over the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits and approvals and addressing other air emission-related issues. at this time, we are unable to fully estimate the effect on earnings or operations or the amount and timing of such required capital 31 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k expenditures; however, we do not believe that we will be materially adversely affected by any such requirements. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into state waters or waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. it is not possible at this time to predict what action, if any, the u.s. congress may take in regard to greenhouse gas legislation. as discussed above under clean air act, the u.s. epa adopted new regulations under the clean air act that took effect in early 2011 and that establish requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. these regulations include the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the united states from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like kmp's mcelmo dome carbon dioxide field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because kmp's operations, including the compressor stations and gas processing plants in the natural gas pipelines kmp business segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities and require us to install new emission controls on the facilities, acquire allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. kmp is not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. while kmp may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by its natural gas pipelines, such recovery of costs is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond its control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or u.s. epa regulatory initiatives could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within the co 2 kmp business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although the magnitude and direction of these impacts cannot now be predicted, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security in section 550 of the homeland security appropriations act of 2007, the u.s. congress gave the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical 32 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k facilities. pursuant to its congressional mandate, on april 9, 2007, the dhs promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 8,120 full-time people at december 31, 2011, including employees of our indirect subsidiary kmgp services company, inc., who are dedicated to the operations of kmp, and employees of kinder morgan canada inc. approximately 833 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2012 and 2016. we, kmgp services company, inc., and kinder morgan canada inc. each consider relations with our employees to be good. for more information on our related party transactions, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. kmgp services company, inc., a subsidiary of kinder morgan g.p., inc., provides employees and kinder morgan services llc, a subsidiary of kmr, provides centralized payroll and employee benefits services to kmr, kmp and kmp's operating partnerships and subsidiaries (collectively, the group ). employees of kmgp services company, inc. are assigned to work for one or more members of the group. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated and charged by kinder morgan services llc to the appropriate members of the group, and the members of the group reimburse their allocated shares of these direct costs. no profit or margin is charged by kinder morgan services llc to the members of the group. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to members of the group in accordance with existing expense allocation procedures. the effect of these arrangements is that each member of the group bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. pursuant to its limited partnership agreement, kmp provides reimbursement for its share of these administrative costs and such reimbursements are accounted for as described above. kmp reimburses kmr with respect to the costs incurred or allocated to kmr in accordance with kmp's limited partnership agreement, the delegation of control agreement among kinder morgan g.p., inc., kmr, kmp and others, and kmr's limited liability company agreement. our named executive officers and other employees that provide management or services to us and the group are employed by us. additionally, other of our employees assist kmp in the operation of its natural gas pipeline assets. these employees' expenses are allocated without a profit component between us and the appropriate members of the group. properties we believe that we have generally satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under 33 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. 34 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to the completion of the merger on october 16, 2011, we and el paso corporation (ep) announced a definitive agreement whereby we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of ep. the merger has been approved by each company's board of directors. we have firm commitments for the full amount of cash required for the merger from a syndicate of banks. prior to closing, the merger will require approval of both our and ep's shareholders. the merger is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012 and is subject to customary regulatory approvals. see items 1 and 2 business and properties pending acquisition of el paso corporation. we and ep may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances and approvals required to complete the merger or, in order to do so, we and ep may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions. the merger is subject to regulatory review by governmental agencies having jurisdiction, including the federal trade commission and the department of justice. the closing of the merger is also subject to the condition that there be no law, injunction, judgment or ruling by a governmental authority in effect seeking to enjoin, restrain, prevent or prohibit the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. we can provide no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained. further, we have agreed to avoid or eliminate any impediment to the merger that may be asserted by governmental entities under the antitrust laws, including by divesting assets, terminating relationships or committing to limit our future freedom of action. there can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required to obtain antitrust approval. if we must take such actions, it could be detrimental to us or to the combined company after the effective time of the merger. furthermore, these actions could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the consummation of the merger. additionally, even if the parties receive early termination of the statutory waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust act or the waiting period thereunder expires, the department of justice or the federal trade commission could take action under the antitrust laws to prevent or rescind the merger, require the divestiture of assets or seek other remedies. additionally, the ferc, state attorneys general or foreign governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the merger. in addition, in some circumstances, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. we may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. if our financing for the merger becomes unavailable, the merger may not be completed and we may be in breach of the merger agreement. we intend to finance the cash required in connection with the merger, including for expenses incurred in connection with the transactions, with debt financing. on february 10, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our existing $1.0 billion revolving credit facility to, among other things, permit the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, and a new credit agreement to provide a $6.8 billion senior secured 364-day bridge term loan facility, a $5.0 billion senior secured three-year term loan facility and joinder agreement to provide an additional $750 million in commitments under our existing revolving credit facility, all effective upon completion of the merger. the obligation of the lenders to provide the debt financing is subject to various conditions, including the repayment of all amounts outstanding under and termination of ep's existing credit facility, and other customary closing conditions. in the event any of the closing conditions is not satisfied or waived, or to the extent one or more of the lenders is unwilling to, or unable to, fund its commitments under the debt financing, we may be required to seek alternative financing or fund the cash required in connection with the merger ourselves. due to the fact that there is no funding condition in the merger agreement, if we are unable to obtain funding from our financing sources for the cash required in connection with the transactions, we could be in breach of the merger agreement assuming all other conditions to closing are satisfied and may be liable to ep for damages. 35 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k we and ep may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the merger. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on ep employees and our employees may have an adverse effect on ep and us and consequently the combined company. this uncertainty may impair the respective company's ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the merger is completed. employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined company. in addition, we may have to provide additional compensation to retain employees. if employees of ep or our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees of the combined company, the combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced. we will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the merger. we expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction-related costs associated with completing the merger, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. these fees and costs will be substantial. non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and ep's businesses. there can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all. failure to successfully combine our and ep's businesses in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined company, and, consequently, the value of our common stock and/or warrants that ep stockholders receive as part of the merger consideration. the success of the proposed merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our and ep's businesses. to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. if the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the transactions may not be realized fully or at all. in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the transactions. these integration difficulties could result in declines in the market value of our common stock and, consequently, result in declines in the market value of the common stock and warrants that ep stockholders receive as part of the merger consideration and continue to hold following consummation of the proposed transactions. failure to complete the merger, or significant delays in completing the merger, could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results. completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by the stockholders of ep or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. if the merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger, it could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger; the parties may be liable for damages to one another under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement; negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of our common stock due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed; and the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. 36 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k purported stockholder class action complaints have been filed against ep, us, the members of ep's board of directors, ep's and our merger subsidiaries and goldman sachs, challenging the transactions, and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of the proposed transactions and result in substantial costs. in connection with the proposed transactions, purported stockholders of ep have filed numerous purported stockholder class action lawsuits in the district court of harris county, texas and in the delaware court of chancery. those lawsuits name as defendants ep, kinder morgan, the members of the board of directors of ep, and, in certain cases, the affiliates of ep and us and goldman, sachs &amp; co. among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the proposed transactions. if a final settlement is not reached, or if a dismissal is not obtained, these lawsuits could prevent and/or delay completion of the transactions and result in substantial costs to ep and us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. additional lawsuits may be filed against ep and us, our respective affiliates and ep's directors related to the proposed transactions. the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not be able to sell ep's exploration and production assets in a timely manner, on satisfactory terms and conditions, at a satisfactory price, or at all. we expect to sell ep's exploration and production assets around the same time as the consummation of the transactions in order to help reduce the level of indebtedness incurred to finance the transactions. the sale of ep's exploration and production assets is dependent upon a number of factors, including the availability of potential purchasers, reaching agreement with respect to the purchase price of such assets and negotiating definitive documentation upon satisfactory terms and conditions. there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell ep's exploration and production assets in a timely manner or at all. in the event we are unable to sell ep's exploration and production assets as expected, the combined company will have an increased amount of indebtedness which may adversely affect our profitability. due to a disagreement between ep and one of its joint venture partners, our and ep's ability to obtain the consents of the independent auditors of the joint venture and of ep to include or incorporate by reference their respective audit reports in our and ep's filings under the securities act and the exchange act may be severely limited. as a result, our and/or ep's ability to access capital markets through registered offerings and make certain filings required under the securities act and the exchange act may be limited, potentially significantly. ep and another party are partners in a pipeline joint venture (referred to as the joint venture ) in which the other party is currently acting as the operator (referred to as the jv operator ). in connection with a planned amendment to our registration statement on form s-4, the jv operator previously refused to provide a management representation letter to the independent auditor of the joint venture. the jv operator has also indicated that it will continue to refuse to provide such management representation letters to auditors for both us and ep except in connection with ep's annual and quarterly filings under the exchange act. as a result, from time to time, we and ep may be unable to include or incorporate by reference in our and ep's respective filings under the securities act and the exchange act, the audited financial statements of the joint venture. furthermore, we and ep may be unable to obtain the consent of the independent auditor of ep (which relies on the audit report of the independent auditor of the joint venture in its audit report on the audited financial statements of ep) to include or incorporate by reference its audit reports. the inability to obtain a management representation letter from the jv operator except in connection with the filing of ep's annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q, and therefore, the inability to obtain the consent of the independent auditors of the joint venture and of ep to include or incorporate by reference their respective audit reports, may limit our ability to timely make necessary post-effective amendments to our registration statement on form s-4 and our ability and/or the ability of ep (and our respective affiliates) to access capital. notwithstanding the fact the jv operator has indicated that it will provide a management representation letter to the independent auditor of the joint venture in connection with the filing of ep's annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q, there can be no assurance that the jv operator will, in fact, do so. failure of the jv operator to provide a management representation letter in connection with the filing of ep's annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q could inhibit or prevent us and/or ep from accessing the capital markets and/or making filings required under the securities act and exchange act and could have an adverse impact on our and/or ep's business and operations, which could be material depending on then-existing circumstances. 37 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k risks relating to our business we are dependent on cash distributions received from kmp. approximately 98% and 97% of the distributions we received from our subsidiaries for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively were attributable to kmp. a decline in kmp's revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash kmp can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which could be material. new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations. our pipelines and storage facilities are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities, such as the ferc, the cpuc and the neb. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. for example, the department of homeland security appropriation act of 2007 required the department of homeland security to issue regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present high levels of security risk. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business regulation. the ferc may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that such costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before the pipeline can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the ferc and the cpuc that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates on kmp's pacific operations' pipeline system. further, the ferc has initiated investigations to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, to the rates we charge on kmp's and ngpl pipelines. any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 38 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and carbon dioxide transportation activities such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could result in substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, if losses in excess of our insurance coverage were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines will require us to spend additional money to comply with these requirements. through our regulated pipeline subsidiaries, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines for the u.s. dot and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the u.s. dot issued final rules (effective february 2004 with respect to natural gas pipelines) requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rules refer to as high consequence areas. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of the costs to comply with the rules are associated with pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on the costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the u.s. dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. we may face competition from competing pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to recontract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business. kmp recently completed several major expansion and new build projects, including the joint venture projects rockies express pipeline, midcontinent express pipeline and fayetteville express pipeline. kmp also is conducting and conducts from time to time alone or with others what are referred to as open seasons to evaluate the potential customer interest for new construction projects. a variety of factors outside of its control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. 39 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k we must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. we obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land for a period of time. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be affected negatively. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. whether kmp has the power of eminent domain for its pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas or carbon dioxide and the laws of the particular state. kmp's interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, kmp must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. kmp's inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect its business if it were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which its pipelines are located. kmp's acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. tightened capital markets or more expensive capital would impair our ability to grow. consistent with the terms of kmp's partnership agreement, it has distributed most of the cash generated by its operations. as a result, kmp has relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund its acquisition and growth capital expenditures. however, to the extent kmp is unable to continue to finance growth externally, kmp's cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. kmp may need new capital to finance these activities. limitations on kmp's access to capital will impair its ability to execute this strategy. kmp's growth strategy may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations, and it may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions. part of kmp's business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities. if kmp does not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, it may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. the integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results. kmp may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon its ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, kmp may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that it hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm its financial condition and results of operations. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. 40 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the united states such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. in addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities in restricted areas, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in increased operating and capital costs for us. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the u.s. epa began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions of certain stationary sources on january 2, 2011, and issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the united states beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010 from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like kmp's mcelmo dome carbon dioxide field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in the natural gas pipelines kmp segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for more information about 41 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters climate change. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact kmp's revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on kmp's or its joint ventures' natural gas pipelines. the natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on kmp's or kmp's joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2011, we had $16.1 billion of consolidated debt (including kmp but excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements). this level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2011, approximately $7.2 billion (45%) of our total $16.1 billion consolidated debt (including kmp but excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we do not have an investment grade credit rating, which may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. since the going private transaction, kmi's credit ratings have been below investment grade. as a result, we have not had access to the commercial paper market and have utilized kmi's $1.0 billion revolving credit facility for our short-term borrowing needs. non-investment grade credit ratings limit our access to the debt markets and increase our cost of capital. the instruments governing any future debt may contain more restrictive covenants than if we had investment grade credit ratings. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing , if needed, may be restricted by these covenants. a downgrade in one or more of kmp's credit ratings to non-investment grade would similarly affect kmp. 42 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. there is the potential for a change of control of the general partner of kmp if we default on debt . we own all of the common equity of kinder morgan g.p., inc., the general partner of kmp. if we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of kinder morgan g.p., inc. or otherwise influence kinder morgan g.p., inc. through their control of us. a change of control of kinder morgan g.p., inc. could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from kmp, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for dividends to our stockholders. current or future distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide. some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. in addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. terrorist attacks, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business . the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems or storage facilities. our operations could become subject to increased governmental scrutiny that would require increased security measures. there is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. future business development of our pipelines is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines. without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at a level that encourages producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas. in addition, with respect to the co 2 kmp business segment, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas. each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. 43 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k throughput on kmp's crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions. over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand. the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products. the future success of kmp's oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within the co 2 kmp business segment will decline. kmp may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if kmp does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. kmp's development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. the volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on kmp's business. the revenues, profitability and future growth of the co 2 kmp business segment and the carrying value of its oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices. for 2012, kmp estimates that every $1 change in the average west texas intermediate crude oil price per barrel would impact the co 2 kmp segment's cash flows by approximately $5.8 million. prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond kmp's control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the united states; (ii) the condition of the united states economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. a sharp decline in the price of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in kmp's revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of kmp's proved reserves. in the event prices fall substantially, kmp may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information 44 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k about kmp's energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk energy commodity market risk. our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities and note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. the recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the u.s. congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act was signed into law by the president on july 21, 2010, and requires the commodities futures trading commission, referred to as the cftc, and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. the act also requires the cftc to institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the kinder morgan canada kmp segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of the kinder morgan canada kmp business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between united states and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced 45 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the united states and canada. volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids will have a negative impact on the results of the co 2 kmp business segment. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. in addition, our insurance premiums may increase as a result of the acquisition of ep's pipeline assets. kmp's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if the internal revenue service were to treat kmp as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or if it was to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution to its partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. we own the general partner interest and approximately 11% of the limited partner interests of kmp. the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in kmp depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes. to maintain its status as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, current law requires that 90% or more of its gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in section 7704 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the code. kmp has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, on this or any other matter affecting it. despite the fact that kmp is a limited partnership under delaware law, it is possible under certain circumstances for such an entity to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if kmp were to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it would pay u.s. federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would pay state income taxes at varying rates. distributions by kmp to its partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to its partners, including us. because a tax would be imposed on kmp as a corporation, the cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. therefore, treatment of kmp as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its partners, including us, likely causing a substantial reduction in the amount of distributions we receive from kmp, in the value of our investment in kmp and in the value of our common stock. current law or kmp's business may change so as to cause it to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. members of congress are considering substantive changes to the existing u.s. federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly-traded partnerships. for example, federal income tax legislation recently has been considered by congress that could eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly-traded partnerships. although the legislation most recently considered by congress would not appear to affect kmp's tax treatment as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we are unable to predict whether any other proposals will ultimately be enacted. any such changes could negatively impact our cash flows, the value of our investment in kmp and the value of our common stock. in addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. for example, kmp is now subject to an entity-level tax on the portion of its total revenue that is generated in texas. specifically, the texas margin tax is imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of kmp's total gross income that is apportioned to texas. this tax reduces, and the imposition of such a tax on kmp by another state will reduce, the cash available for distribution by kmp to its partners, including us. 46 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k kmp's partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact on it of that law. kmp has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between it and its unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of kmp's common units. when kmp issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, it determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and us. this methodology may be viewed as understating the value of kmp's assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and us, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under kmp's current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of its common units may have a greater portion of their adjustment under section 743(b) of the code allocated to its tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to its intangible assets. the irs may challenge these valuation methods, or kmp's allocation of the adjustment under section 743(b) of the code attributable to its tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and certain of its unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to kmp's unitholders, including us. it also could affect the amount of gain from kmp's unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to its unitholders' or the general partner's tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. kmp's treatment of a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller could be challenged, resulting in a reduction in value of the common units. because kmp cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, it is required to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of these units in the hands of the purchasers and sellers of these units. kmp does so by adopting certain depreciation conventions that do not conform to all aspects of the u.s. treasury regulations. a successful irs challenge to these conventions could adversely affect the tax benefits to a unitholder, such as us, of ownership of kmp's common units and could have a negative impact on their value or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns. if kmp's unitholders remove the general partner, we would lose our general partner interest, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage kmp. we own the general partner of kmp and all of the voting shares of kmr, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of kmp, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions. kmp's partnership agreement, however, gives unitholders of kmp the right to remove the general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2 3% of kmp's outstanding units (including the common units, class b units and i-units) voting as a single class vote for such removal; in such a vote, the common units and class b units owned by the general partner and its affiliates would be excluded, a number of i-units equal to the number of kmr shares owned by the general partner and its affiliates also would be excluded, and the remaining i-units would be voted in the same proportion as the vote of the other holders of the kmr shares; (ii) the holders of kmp's outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote; and (iii) kmp receives an opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner of kmp or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause kmp or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. if the general partner were removed as general partner of kmp, it would lose its ability to manage kmp and its delegation of authority to kmr would terminate at the same time. the general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. while the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of kmp's partnership agreement to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest. 47 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k if in the future kmr and the general partner cease to manage and control kmp, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. if our subsidiaries, kmr and kinder morgan g.p., inc., which is the general partner of kmp, cease to manage and control kmp, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. in that case, we would either have to register as an investment company under the investment company act, obtain exemptive relief from the sec or modify our organizational structure or our contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company. registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer, richard d. kinder, who is also one of our founders. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. risks related to the ownership of our common stock future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock by holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or us could cause the share price to decline and future issuances by us may dilute the ownership interest in our company of our stockholders. we are unable to predict when or whether significant amounts of our common stock will be sold by the sponsor investors, holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or us. the class a shares are convertible at any time into shares of our common stock, and the class b shares and class c shares may convert into shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. the sponsor investors and richard d. kinder have the right to require us to register resales of shares of our common stock received upon the conversion of their class a shares at any time, subject to certain limitations, including, in the case of mr. kinder, transfer restrictions. any future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market by our current holders or us, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities at a time and price we deem appropriate. further, if we issue additional common stock or convertible securities to raise additional capital, the ownership interest in our company of our stockholders may be diluted and the value of our stockholders' investments may be reduced. we also may issue common stock or convertible securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. if any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares or convertible securities that we may issue could be significant. the price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments. the market price of the common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of kmp, other companies comparable to us or kmp or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general u.s. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts' interest in following our company. 48 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k we are a controlled company'' within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules, and although we do not currently intend to rely on exemptions from various corporate governance requirements, we may rely on such exemptions in the future. a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a controlled company'' within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules. a controlled company'' may elect not to comply with various corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange, including the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors, the requirement that its nominating and governance committee consist of all independent directors and the requirement that its compensation committee consist of all independent directors. we believe that we are a controlled company'' since the sponsor investors and richard d. kinder collectively hold approximately 80.0% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on the election of directors, and they have agreed to vote together on certain matters pursuant to our shareholders agreement, including on the election of our directors. although we currently do not intend to rely on the controlled company'' exemption to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the new york stock exchange rules, we may decide in the future to rely on that exemption. in addition, under our shareholders agreement, if at any time our board of directors does not meet the majority independence requirements of the new york stock exchange or any other national securities exchange on which the common stock is listed for trading, we will be obligated to operate under a controlled company'' exemption, to the extent such an exemption is available to us at that time. if we rely on that exemption, our stockholders may not have the same corporate governance advantages afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. our organizational documents and provisions of delaware law we have elected to apply to us contain additional approval requirements for certain changes of control that may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. our shareholders agreement prohibits us from directly or indirectly engaging in any merger, amalgamation, consolidation or other business combination or similar transaction or series of transactions (other than for solely cash consideration) without obtaining the unanimous approval of our shareholders unless the organizational documents and capital structure of the acquiring, surviving or resulting entity preserve in all material respects the economic and other rights (including conversion, transfer, distribution and governance rights as set forth in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareholders agreement), characteristics and tax treatment, including on a relative basis, of the sponsor investors, the class a shares, the class b shares, the class c shares and the shares of our common stock as they exist on the date of such transaction. a determination that a transaction meets the above requirements requires approval by each of the following: (i) sponsor investors holding a majority of our outstanding shares of capital stock then entitled to vote for the election of directors then held by sponsor investors that hold class a shares, (ii) richard d. kinder (so long as he and his permitted transferees hold class a shares), (iii) holders of a majority of our outstanding class b shares, and (iv) holders of a majority of our outstanding class c shares. these provisions will apply even if the offer is considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. if all requisite shareholders other than the holders of class c shares approve such a transaction, we generally may engage in such transaction so long as the class c shares receive the consideration provided in our charter. in addition, if the transaction is otherwise approved by the requisite holders of our capital stock, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder may decide that the holders of common stock, class a shares, class b shares and class c shares receive the consideration provided in our charter, regardless of whether such transaction is determined to meet the above requirements. in addition, our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock, which if issued could include special class voting rights on a change of control transaction. also, for so long as the sponsor investors collectively have the right to nominate at least five of our directors, change of control transactions will require supermajority board approval. if a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, referred to in this report as the dgcl. section 203 limits the ability of interested stockholders, which are certain stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, to merge or combine with us. neither richard d. kinder nor any sponsor investors that are interested stockholders fall within this limitation, and we have elected not to opt out of this provision. accordingly, section 203 will apply to any stockholder that becomes an interested stockholder after the date of our initial public offering. these provisions could discourage or make it more difficult to accomplish transactions other stockholders might deem desirable. 49 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k non-u.s. holders of our common stock may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock. if we are or have been a united states real property holding corporation'' within the meaning of the code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-u.s. holder, or (ii) such holder's holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is regularly traded,'' as defined by applicable u.s. treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-u.s. holder may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above. we believe we are, or may become, a united states real property holding corporation. risks related to our dividend policy holders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all. our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes. however, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws and other factors. dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the sponsor investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future. the terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances. a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. the general partner of kmp, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support kmp that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. we utilize kmp as our vehicle for growth. we have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest. as the owner of the general partner of kmp, we may take steps we judge beneficial to kmp's growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends. the board of directors of the general partner of kmp may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per kmp partnership unit. for example, the general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture and has agreed to waive its incentive distributions of $24.5 million and $3.5 million for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively, on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's subsequent acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture. an example of action we took to support kmp occurred in 2006 when kmp had missed the annual growth and earnings/distribution targets under its bonus plan, which would have resulted in no bonus payments for employees for their service to kmp. we believed that those bonuses were appropriate and in our and kmp's interest, so we funded the bonuses by waiving a portion of the general partner's incentive distribution. similar or different actions in the future, even if determined to be in our long-term best interests, will have the effect of reducing the cash we have or are entitled to receive from kmp, and reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the kmp level or impair our financial flexibility. if we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the kmp level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. in addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the kmp level, including through 50 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. we cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. if we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, while the sponsor investors maintain specified ownership thresholds, any changes to our dividend policy will require supermajority board approval, which may prevent us from modifying our dividend policy to pursue such growth opportunities. an increase in u.s. federal income tax rates applicable to us would reduce the amount of our cash available to pay dividends. further, an increase in individual tax rates could encourage us to conclude that it would be better for our investors for us to use our cash to repurchase shares in the open market rather than pay dividends. this, too, would reduce our cash available to pay dividends. there currently is much public speculation regarding the future of u.s. federal income tax rates. we cannot predict whether legislation will be passed and become law that raises tax rates applicable to us or to individuals, or if such legislation were to become law, its effective date. any increase in the corporate income tax rates applicable to us will reduce the amount of cash available to pay dividends. further, any increase in individual tax rates could encourage our board of directors to conclude that it would be better for our investors if we were to use our cash to repurchase shares in the open market. this, too, would reduce our cash available to pay dividends. if we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends. all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries, particularly kmp. in addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as kmp, are not wholly owned by us. when funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us. a number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future. in addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization. the board of directors of kmr, which is the delegate of kmp's general partner, has broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of kmp's business. the establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions by kmp and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level. further, the calculation of kmp's available cash for distribution is at the discretion and subject to the approval of the board of directors of kmr, taking into consideration the terms of kmp's constituent agreements. similarly, while the constituent agreements of ngpl provide that it is the intention of ngpl to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of ngpl and do not control it. the same is true for joint ventures in which kmp owns an interest, such as rockies express pipeline llc, midcontinent express pipeline llc, fayetteville express pipeline llc and kinderhawk field services llc. the distributions we receive from kmp are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest. the distributions we receive are not as large if kmp distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if kmp's general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock. if we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. our ability to pay dividends is restricted by delaware law. under the dgcl, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the dgcl, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the dgcl. if, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment 51 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders. risks related to conflicts of interest the sponsor investors are in a position to affect our ongoing operations, corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of our stockholders. the sponsor investors collectively own a total of 56.8% of our class a shares, which collectively represents approximately 47.3% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock for the election of directors and 48.8% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock for other matters. as a result, the sponsor investors are able to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. for so long as the sponsor investors own a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, even if less than a majority, they will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. our shareholders agreement also provides the sponsor investors who continue to own at least 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors with veto rights over specified actions that may impose a regulatory burden on such sponsor investors and requires us to reasonably cooperate with such sponsor investors and their affiliates to mitigate consequences of such actions. we also are required to keep such sponsor investors informed of any events or changes with respect to any criminal or regulatory investigation or action involving us or any of our affiliates. the interests of the sponsor investors may conflict with or differ from the interests of our stockholders. the sponsor investors and holders of our class a, class b and class c shares have the ability to nominate a majority of our board of directors. in connection with the conversion transactions, we entered into a shareholders agreement with the sponsor investors and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares pursuant to which the sponsor investors have the right to nominate six of the thirteen members of our board of directors, and richard d. kinder has the right to nominate five of the thirteen members of our board of directors. in that agreement, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder agree with each other to vote all of their shares of capital stock in favor of those nominees. two of the sponsor investors each have the right to nominate two directors as long as they each own 5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. those two sponsor investors and the other two sponsor investors each have the right to nominate one director as long as they each own 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. mr. kinder has the right to nominate five directors as long as he is our chief executive officer and owns at least 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. if mr. kinder is terminated as chief executive officer for cause, he will retain the right to nominate one director, which cannot be mr. kinder himself. if mr. kinder ceases to be the chief executive officer for any reason other than as a result of termination for cause, he will retain the right to nominate two directors, one of whom can be mr. kinder himself. if mr. kinder loses such nomination rights, such rights will shift to the original stockholders and other management in specified circumstances. accordingly, even after the ownership in us of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares has significantly declined, they will be able to nominate the majority of our directors. the class a shares owned by the sponsor investors and the class a shares and class b shares owned by mr. kinder represent approximately 78.0% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors (with the sponsor investors in the aggregate holding approximately 47.3% of such total voting power and mr. kinder holding approximately 30.7% of such total voting power). accordingly, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder have not only the right to nominate 11 of our 13 directors, but also the voting power to elect all 13 of our directors. our organizational documents provide the directors nominated by the sponsor investors with a collective veto over substantially all of the actions required to be approved by our board of directors. our bylaws require that substantially all actions brought before our board of directors while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint at least five director nominees will require supermajority board approval, which is defined as the affirmative vote of eight directors when our board of directors has twelve members (while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint five director nominees) or thirteen members (while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint six director nominees). as a result, our board of directors will be unable to approve of any action by supermajority board approval if all of the directors nominated by the sponsor investors vote against such action. the inability of our board of directors to approve specified actions by supermajority board approval as required by our bylaws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if we are unable to take action on critical corporate matters. 52 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k our certificate of incorporation and shareholders agreement contain provisions renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities. our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders agreement each provide that none of the sponsor investors, the directors nominated by the sponsor investors, the sponsor investors' affiliates and subsidiaries, nor any of their managers, officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners will have any duty to tell us about or offer to us any business opportunity, even if it is the same business or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. these documents also provide that none of the sponsor investors nor their respective affiliates will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any duty by reason of any such activities. for instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer or employee of a sponsor investor or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates may pursue certain acquisition or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are pursued by such a sponsor investor or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of by us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates may compete with us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies, and they may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates also may pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. we have waived certain potential conflicts of interest between us and the sponsor investors. see our certificate of incorporation and shareholders agreement contain provisions renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities.'' as a result, the sponsor investors and their affiliates may not be liable for pursuing business opportunities and not making them available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are pursued by a sponsor investor or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of by us. kmp and its subsidiaries may compete with us. none of kmp or any of its subsidiaries or entities in which it owns an interest is restricted from competing with us. kmr and the general partner of kmp have the same individuals on their boards of directors, and a majority of those directors are independent. kmr manages kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner) in what it considers to be the best interests of kmp and its partners. kmp and its subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. among other things, we and kmp have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the kmp level only if kmp elects not to pursue the opportunity. actions taken by our board of directors, and actions taken by the boards of directors of kmr and other of our subsidiaries, may affect the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders. the amount of cash that is available for dividends to our stockholders is affected by decisions of our board of directors and the boards of directors of kmr and others of our subsidiaries regarding such matters as: (i) the amount and timing of cash expenditures, including those relating to compensation; (ii) the amount and timing of investments and dispositions; (iii) our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our subsidiaries; (iv) tax matters; (v) reserves; and (vi) our issuance of additional equity securities, including common stock. many of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, or entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future. many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, which manages and controls kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner), and other entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl. in making decisions in such person's capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment. however, any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, who is also a director or officer 53 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k of ours, in making decisions in such person's capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accordance with his or her fiduciary duties to us. further, the organizational documents of many of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us. in addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. there could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. common stockholders have no right to enforce obligations of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates under agreements with us. any agreements between us, on the one hand, and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates, on the other, will not grant to the common stockholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates in our favor. purchasers of shares of common stock will not become parties to the shareholders agreement. as a result, holders of common stock will not be able to enforce any obligations under the shareholders agreement in the event that we decide not to pursue any remedies available to us under the shareholders agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. contracts between us, on the one hand, and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates, on the other, will not be the result of arm's-length negotiations. we may enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or their affiliates. neither our charter or bylaws nor the shareholders agreement or any other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us on the one hand, and any of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or their affiliates on the other, are or will be the result of arm's-length negotiations. our board of directors or a committee thereof will determine the terms of any of these transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 97 energy commodity market risk 97 interest rate risk 99 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks, such as weather-related risk, in the ordinary course of business. however, we take steps to hedge, or limit our exposure to, these risks in order to maintain a more stable and predictable earnings stream. stated another way, we execute a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us 97 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. the derivative contracts kmp uses include energy products traded on the new york mercantile exchange and over-the-counter markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. fundamentally, our hedging strategy involves taking a simultaneous position in the futures market that is equal and opposite to our position, or anticipated position, in the cash market (or physical product) in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, kmp often enters into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of its crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of its natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby directly offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. a hedge is successful when gains or losses in the cash market are neutralized by losses or gains in the futures transaction. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions only with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's ratings services): credit rating j. aron &amp; company / goldman sachs a- barclays a credit suisse a+ as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide kmp increased certainty with regard to its operating cash flows and helps it undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet distribution targets to its partners. we categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but whose value is uncertain. cash flow hedges are defined as hedges made with the intention of decreasing the variability in cash flows related to future transactions, as opposed to the value of an asset, liability or firm commitment, and we are allowed special hedge accounting treatment for such derivative contracts. in accounting for cash flow hedges, gains and losses on the derivative contracts are reported in other comprehensive income (loss), outside net income reported in our consolidated statements of income, but only to the extent that the gains and losses from the change in value of the derivative contracts can later offset the loss or gain from the change in value of the hedged future cash flows during the period in which the hedged cash flows affect net income. that is, for cash flow hedges, all effective components of the derivative contracts' gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), pending occurrence of the expected transaction. other comprehensive income (loss) consists of those financial items that are included within accumulated other comprehensive loss in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets but not included in our net income (portions attributable to our noncontrolling interests are included within noncontrolling interests and are not included in our net income). thus, in highly effective cash flow hedges, where there is no ineffectiveness, other comprehensive income changes by exactly as much as the derivative contracts and there is no impact on earnings until the expected transaction occurs. all remaining gains and losses on the derivative contracts (the ineffective portion) are included in current net income. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative contracts is the difference between the gain or loss from the change in value of the derivative contract and the effective portion of that gain or loss. in addition, when the hedged forecasted transaction does take place and affects earnings, the effective part of the hedge is also recognized in the income statement, and the earlier recognized effective amounts are removed from accumulated other comprehensive loss (and noncontrolling interests ) and are transferred to the income statement as well, effectively offsetting the changes in cash flows stemming from the hedged risk. if the forecasted transaction results in an asset or liability, amounts should be reclassified into earnings when the asset or liability affects earnings through cost of sales, depreciation, interest expense, etc. for more information on our other comprehensive income (loss) and our accumulated other comprehensive loss see notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 98 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil markets utilizing a value-at-risk model. value-at-risk is a statistical measure estimating the probability of portfolio losses over a given holding period, within a certain level of statistical confidence. we utilize a closed form model to evaluate risk on a quarterly basis. our value-at-risk computations utilize a confidence level of 97.7% for the resultant price movement, and we choose a holding period of one day for the calculation. the confidence level used means that there is a 97.7% probability that the mark-to-market losses for a single day will not exceed the value-at-risk number presented. for each of the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, our value-at-risk reached a high of $9.4 million and $6.9 million, respectively, and a low of $3.0 million and $2.5 million, respectively. value-at-risk as of december 31, 2011 was $3.0 million, and averaged $6.8 million for 2011. value-at-risk as of december 31, 2010 was $2.5 million, and averaged $4.6 million for 2010. our calculated value-at-risk exposure represents an estimate of the reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on the combined portfolio of derivative contracts (including commodity futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps, basis swaps and over-the-counter options) and corresponding physical commodities assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. in addition, as discussed above, kmp enters into its derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of its business activities and, therefore both in the value-at-risk calculation and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. for more information on our energy commodity risk management activities, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt until such debt is required to be refinanced. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, the carrying values of the fixed rate debt included in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets were $14,949.5 million and $14,559.1 million, respectively. these amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, fair values of $16,461.8 million and $15,518.3 million, respectively. fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flow discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt for 2011 and 2010, would result in changes of approximately $574.8 million and $530.3 million, respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. the carrying value and fair value of the variable rate debt, including associated accrued interest and excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements (discussed following), was $1,152.0 million and $596.1 million as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. as of december 31, 2011, kmi and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with a notional principal amount of $725.0 million and $5.3 billion, respectively. as of december 31, 2010, kmi and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with a notional principal amount of $725.0 million and $4.8 billion, respectively. an interest rate swap agreement is a contractual agreement entered into between two counterparties under which each agrees to make periodic interest payments to the other for an agreed period of time based upon a predetermined amount of principal, which is called the notional principal amount. normally at each payment or settlement date, the party who owes more pays the net amount; so at any given settlement date only one party actually makes a payment. the principal amount is notional because there is no need to exchange actual amounts of principal. a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 44 basis points in 2011 and approximately 45 basis points in 2010) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $31.6 million and $27.4 million, respectively, in our 2011 and 2010 annual pre-tax earnings. interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of transforming a portion of the underlying cash flows 99 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. as of both december 31, 2011 and 2010, all of kmi's and kmp's interest rate swap agreements represented fixed-for-variable rate swaps, where each agreed to pay its counterparties a variable rate of interest on a notional principal amount, comprised of principal amounts from various series of our long-term fixed rate senior notes. in exchange, the counterparties agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest, thereby allowing fixed rate liabilities to transform into variable rate obligations without the incurrence of additional loan origination or conversion costs. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time through our subsidiaries, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. in general, kmp attempts to maintain an overall target mix of approximately 50% fixed rate debt and 50% of variable rate debt, and typically kmi, excluding kmp, targets well below that level for variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 35% of kmi's debt, excluding that of kmp, is variable rate debt. as of both december 31, 2011 and 2010, kmp's cash and investment portfolio included $8.2 million in fixed-income debt securities. these amounts are included within investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets at each reporting date and are not material to our consolidated balance sheets. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information related to our debt instruments; for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.risk factors 41 risk factors below, there are factors that 12 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we (primarily through kmp) regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions and approval of the parties' respective boards of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we own and manage a diversified portfolio of energy transportation and storage assets. our operations are conducted through the following reportable business segments, the first five of which are also business segments of kmp. these business segments are as follows: products pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 8,400 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines that deliver gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel and natural gas liquids to various markets; plus approximately 60 associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix processing facilities serving customers across the united states; natural gas pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 15,500 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines and gathering lines, plus natural gas storage, treating and processing facilities, through which natural gas is gathered, transported, stored, treated, processed and sold; co 2 kmp which produces, markets and transports, through approximately 2,000 miles of pipelines, carbon dioxide to oil fields that use carbon dioxide to increase production of oil; owns interests in and/or operates eight oil fields in west texas; and owns and operates a 450-mile crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals kmp which consists of approximately 124 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 33 rail transloading and materials handling facilities located throughout the united states and portions of canada, which together transload, store and deliver a wide variety of bulk, petroleum, petrochemical and other liquids products for customers across the united states and canada; kinder morgan canada kmp which t ransports crude oil and refined petroleum products through over 2,500 miles of pipelines from alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, the state of washington and the rocky mountains and central regions of the united states; ngpl pipeco llc consists of our 20% interest in ngpl pipeco llc, the owner of natural gas pipeline company of america llc and certain affiliates, collectively referred to as natural gas pipeline company of america or ngpl, a major interstate natural gas pipeline and storage system, which we operate. prior to february 15, 2008, we owned 100% of ngpl pipeco llc; and power during the historical periods presented in this report, we had a business segment referred to as power,'' which consisted of our ownership of natural gas-fired electric generation facilities. on october 22, 2010, we sold our facility located in michigan, referred to as triton power,'' for approximately $15.0 million in cash, and as a result, in future periods we will no longer report power as a business segment. products pipelines kmp the products pipelines kmp business segment consists of kmp's refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids pipelines, their associated terminals, and its transmix processing facilities. west coast products pipelines kmp's west coast products pipelines include the sfpp, l.p. operations (often referred to in this report as the pacific operations), the calnev pipeline operations, and the west coast terminals operations. the assets include interstate common carrier pipelines regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california regulated by the california public utilities commission, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. the pacific operations serve six western states with approximately 2,500 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines and related terminal facilities that provide refined products to major population centers in the united states, including california; las vegas and reno, nevada; and the phoenix-tucson, arizona corridor. in 2010, the pacific operations' mainline pipeline system transported approximately 1,079,400 barrels per day of refined products, with the 13 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k product mix being approximately 61% gasoline, 23% diesel fuel, and 16% jet fuel. in 2009, the pacific operations' pipeline system delivered approximately 1,078,800 barrels per day of refined petroleum products. the calnev pipeline system consists of two parallel 248-mile, 14-inch and 8-inch diameter pipelines that run from kmp's facilities at colton, california to las vegas, nevada. the pipeline serves the mojave desert through deliveries to a terminal at barstow, california and two nearby major railroad yards. it also serves nellis air force base, located in las vegas, and approximately 55 miles of pipeline serves edwards air force base. in 2010, the calnev pipeline system transported approximately 120,200 barrels per day of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 44% gasoline, 30% diesel fuel, and 26% jet fuel. in 2009, the system delivered approximately 120,400 barrels per day of refined petroleum products. the west coast products pipelines include 15 truck-loading terminals (13 in the pacific operations and two in calnev) with an aggregate usable tankage capacity of approximately 15.4 million barrels. the truck terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. the west coast terminals are fee-based terminals located in the seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas along the west coast of the united states. combined, these terminals have a total capacity of approximately 9.0 million barrels of storage for both petroleum products and chemicals. kmp's west coast products pipelines and associated west coast terminals together handled 16.8 million barrels of ethanol in 2010, a 46% increase when compared to the 11.5 million barrels handled in 2009. markets. combined, the pacific operations and calnev pipeline system transport approximately 1.2 million barrels per day of refined petroleum products, providing pipeline service to approximately 28 customer-owned terminals, 11 commercial airports and 15 military bases. the pipeline systems serve approximately 72 shippers in the refined petroleum products market, the largest customers being major petroleum companies, independent refiners, and the united states military. a substantial portion of the product volume transported is gasoline. demand for gasoline and, in turn, the volumes transported, depends on such factors as prevailing economic conditions, government specificat ions and regulations, vehicular use, and purchase patterns and demographic changes in the markets served. certain product volumes can also experience seasonal variations and, consequently, overall delivery volumes may be lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. supply. the majority of refined products supplied to the west coast product pipelines come from the major refining centers around los angeles, san francisco, west texas and puget sound, as well as from waterborne terminals and connecting pipelines located near these refining centers. competition. the two most significant competitors of the pacific and calnev operations are (i) proprietary pipelines owned and operated by oil companies in the area where kmp's pipelines deliver products and (ii) refineries with terminals that have trucking arrangements within kmp's market areas. kmp believes that high capital costs, tariff regulation, and environmental and right-of-way permitting considerations make it unlikely that a competing pipeline system comparable in size and scope to its west coast products pipelines will be built in the foreseeable future. however, the possibility of individual pipelines such as the holly/sinclair unev pipeline from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada, being constructed or expanded to serve specific markets is a continuing competitive factor. the use of trucks for product distribution from either shipper-owned proprietary terminals or from their refining centers continues to compete for short haul movements by pipeline. the west coast terminal operations compete with terminals owned by its shippers and by third party terminal operators in california, arizona and nevada. competitors include shell oil products u.s., bp, wilmington liquid bulk terminals (vopak), nustar, pro petroleum and chevron. kmp cannot predict with any certainty whether the use of short haul trucking will decrease or increase in the future. plantation pipe line company kmp owns approximately 51% of plantation pipe line company, the sole owner of the approximately 3,100-mile refined petroleum products plantation pipeline system serving the southeastern united states. kmp operates the system pursuant to agreements with plantation and a related entity, plantation services llc. the plantation pipeline system serves as a common carrier of refined petroleum products to various metropolitan areas, including birmingham, alabama; atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; and the washington, d.c. area. an affiliate of exxonmobil corporation owns the remaining approximately 49% ownership interest, and exxonmobil has historically been one of the largest shippers on the plantation system both in terms of volumes and revenues. 14 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k in 2010, plantation delivered approximately 498,300 barrels per day of refined petroleum products, with the product mix being approximately 65% gasoline, 22% diesel fuel, and 13% jet fuel. in 2009, plantation delivered approximately 487,000 barrels per day of refined petroleum products. markets. plantation ships products for approximately 30 companies to terminals throughout the southeastern united states. plantation's principal customers are gulf coast refining and marketing companies, fuel wholesalers, and the united states department of defense. during 2010, plantation's top eight shippers represented approximately 97% of total system volumes. the eight states in which plantation operates represent a collective pipeline demand of approximately two million barrels per day of refined petroleum products. plantation currently has direct access to about 1.5 million barrels per day of this overall market. the remaining 0.5 million barrels per day of demand lies in markets (e.g., nashville, tennessee; north augusta, south carolina; bainbridge, georgia; and selma, north carolina) currently served by another pipeline company. plantation also delivers jet fuel to the atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; and washington, d.c. airports (ronald reagan national and dulles) and military jet fuel to military facilities in the southeast. supply. products shipped on plantation originate at various gulf coast refineries from which major integrated oil companies and independent refineries and wholesalers ship refined petroleum products. plantation is directly connected to and supplied by a total of ten major refineries representing approximately 2.5 million barrels per day of refining capacity. competition. plantation competes primarily with the colonial pipeline system, which also runs from gulf coast refineries throughout the southeastern united states and extends into both the mid-atlantic and northeastern united states. central florida pipeline kmp's central florida pipeline operations consist of (i) a 110-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline that transports gasoline and ethanol; (ii) an 85-mile, 10-inch diameter pipeline that transports diesel fuel and jet fuel from tampa to orlando and (iii) two separate liquids terminals located in tampa and taft, florida, which kmp owns and operates. both pipelines service kmp's taft terminal (located near orlando), and the 10-inch diameter pipeline has an additional intermediate delivery point at intercession city, florida, and is also the sole pipeline supplying jet fuel to the orlando international airport in orlando, florida. in 2010, the pipeline system transported approximately 104,800 barrels per day of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 69% gasoline and ethanol, 11% diesel fuel, and 20% jet fuel. in 2009, the central florida pipeline system delivered approximately 107,100 barrels per day of refined petroleum products. in addition to being connected to the tampa terminal, kmp's central florida pipeline system is connected to terminals owned and operated by transmontaigne, citgo, bp, and marathon petroleum. kmp's tampa terminal contains approximately 1.5 million barrels of storage capacity and is connected to two ship dock facilities in the port of tampa. the terminal provides storage for gasoline, ethanol, diesel fuel and jet fuel for further movement into either trucks or into the central florida pipeline system, and also provides storage and truck rack blending services for bio-diesel. kmp's taft terminal contains approximately 0.7 million barrels of storage capacity, for gasoline, ethanol, and diesel fuel for further movement into trucks. markets. the total refined petroleum products demand for the central florida region of the state, which includes the tampa and orlando markets, is estimated to be approximately 356,000 barrels per day, or 45% of the consumption of refined products in the state, and gasoline is, by far, the largest component of that demand. kmp distributes approximately 150,000 barrels of refined petroleum products per day, including the tampa terminal truck loadings. the balance of the market is supplied primarily by trucking firms and marine transportation firms. the market in central florida is seasonal and heavily influenced by tourism, with demand peaks in march and april during spring break and again in the summer vacation season. supply. the vast majority of refined petroleum products consumed in florida are supplied via marine vessels from major refining centers in the gulf coast of louisiana and mississippi and refineries in the caribbean basin. a lesser amount of refined petroleum products is supplied by refineries in alabama and by texas gulf coast refineries via marine vessels and through pipeline networks that extend to bainbridge, georgia. the supply into florida is generally transported by ocean-going vessels to the larger metropolitan ports, such as tampa, port everglades near miami, and jacksonville. individual markets are then supplied from terminals at these ports and other smaller ports, predominately by trucks, except the central florida regio n, which is served by a combination of trucks and pipelines. 15 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k competition. with respect to the central florida pipeline system, the most significant competitors are trucking firms and marine transportation firms. trucking transportation is more competitive in serving markets close to the marine terminals on the east and west coasts of florida. kmp utilizes tariff incentives to attract volumes to the pipeline that might otherwise enter the orlando market area by truck from tampa or by marine vessel into cape canaveral. kmp believes it is unlikely that a new pipeline system comparable in size and scope to its central florida pipeline system will be constructed, due to the high cost of pipeline construction, tariff regulation and environmental and right-of-way permitting in florida. h owever, the possibility of such a pipeline or a smaller capacity pipeline being built is a continuing competitive factor. with respect to kmp's terminal operations at tampa, the most significant competitors are proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies, such as the citgo terminals located along the port of tampa, the chevron and motiva terminals located in port tampa, and terminals owned by marathon petroleum and bp. these competing terminals generally support the storage requirements of their parent or affiliated companies' refining and marketing operations and provide a mechanism for an oil company to enter into exchange contracts with third parties to serve its storage needs in markets where the oil company may not have terminal assets. cochin pipeline system kmp's cochin pipeline system consists of an approximately 1,900-mile, 12-inch diameter multi-product pipeline operating between fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario, along with five terminals. the pipeline operates on a batched basis and has an estimated system capacity of approximately 70,000 barrels per day. it includes 31 pump stations spaced at 60 mile intervals and five united states propane terminals. underground storage is available at fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario through third parties. in 2010 and 2009, the pipeline system transported approximately 20,000 and 29,300 barrels per day of natural gas liquids, respectively. further information about the cochin system is discussed above in (a) general development of business& #8212;recent developments products pipelines kmp. markets. the pipeline traverses three provinces in canada and seven states in the united states and can transport propane, butane and natural gas liquids to the midwestern united states and eastern canadian petrochemical and fuel markets. current operations involve only the transportation of propane on cochin. supply. injection into the system can occur from bp, provident, keyera or dow facilities with connections at fort saskatchewan, alberta, and from spectra at interconnects at regina and richardson, saskatchewan. competition. the pipeline competes with railcars and enbridge energy partners for natural gas liquids long-haul business from fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario. the pipeline's primary competition in the chicago natural gas liquids market comes from the combination of the alliance pipeline system, which brings unprocessed gas into the united states from canada, and aux sable, which processes and markets the natural gas liquids in the chicago market. cypress pipeline kmp now owns 50% of cypress interstate pipeline llc, the sole owner of the cypress pipeline system. the cypress pipeline is an interstate common carrier natural gas liquids pipeline originating at storage facilities in mont belvieu, texas and extending 104 miles east to a connection with westlake chemical corporation, a major petrochemical producer in the lake charles, louisiana area. effective october 1, 2010, westlake petrochemicals llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of westlake chemical corporation, exercised its option to purchase from kmp a 50% ownership interest in cypress interstate pipeline llc; however, kmp remains the operator of the cypress pipeline system. mont belvieu, located approximately 20 miles east of houston, is the largest hub for natural gas liquids gathering, transportation, fractionation and storage in the united states. the cypress pipeline system has a current capacity of approximately 55,000 barrels per day for natural gas liquids, and in 2010 and 2009, the system transported approximately 49,000 and 43,400 barrels per day, respectively. markets. the cypress pipeline system services westlake pursuant to the provisions of a ship-or-pay transportation agreement entered into in october 2010. the transportation agreement expires in april 2021, and requires a minimum volume of 35,000 barrels per day. supply. the cypress pipeline system originates in mont belvieu where it is able to receive ethane and ethane/propane mix from local storage facilities. mont belvieu has facilities to fractionate natural gas liquids received from several 16 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k pipelines into ethane and other components. additionally, pipeline systems that transport natural gas liquids from major producing areas in texas, new mexico, louisiana, oklahoma, and the mid-continent region of the unites states supply ethane and ethane/propane mix to mont belvieu. competition. the pipeline's primary competition into the lake charles market comes from louisiana onshore and offshore natural gas liquids. southeast terminals kmp's southeast terminal operations consist of 26 high-quality, liquid petroleum products terminals located along the plantation/colonial pipeline corridor in the southeastern united states. combined, kmp's southeast terminals have a total storage capacity of approximately 8.3 million barrels. in 2010 and 2009, these terminals transferred approximately 358,900 and 348,000 barrels of refined products per day, respectively. markets . the acquisition and marketing activities of the southeast terminal operations are focused on the southeastern united states from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee. the primary function involves the receipt of petroleum products from common carrier pipelines, short-term storage in terminal tankage, and subsequent loading onto tank trucks. combined, the southeast terminal operations have a physical presence in markets representing almost 80% of the pipeline-supplied demand in the southeast and offer a competitive alternative to marketers seeking relationships with independent truck terminal service providers. beginning in 2009, the southeast terminal operations expanded their ethanol blending and storage services into several conventional gasoline markets, and in 2010, it completed the installation of automated ethanol blending facilities at a second gasoline terminal located in selma, north carolina. the southeast terminals now have ethanol blending capabilities in 12 of the 15 markets it serves and can adjust blending ratios as needed in order to help customers meet changing regulatory requirements. combined, the southeast terminal operations handled 9.0 million barrels of ethanol in 2010, a 25% increase when compared to the 7.2 million barrels handled in 2009. supply. product supply is predominately from plantation and colonial pipelines with a number of terminals connected to both pipelines. to the maximum extent practicable, kmp endeavors to connect the southeast terminals to both of the plantation and colonial pipeline systems. in addition to pipeline supply, kmp is also able to take marine receipts at both its richmond and chesapeake, virginia terminals. competition . most of the refined petroleum products terminals in this region are owned by large oil companies (bp, motiva, citgo, marathon, and chevron) who use these assets to support their own proprietary market demands as well as product exchange activity. these oil companies are not generally seeking third party throughput customers. magellan midstream partners and transmontaigne product services represent the other significant independent terminal operators in this region. transmix operations kmp's transmix operations include the processing of petroleum pipeline transmix, a blend of dissimilar refined petroleum products that have become co-mingled in the pipeline transportation process. during pipeline transportation, different products are transported through the pipelines abutting each other, and generate a volume of different mixed products called transmix. kmp processes and separates pipeline transmix into pipeline-quality gasoline and light distillate products at six separate processing facilities located in colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; wood river, illinois; and greensboro, north carolina. combined, kmp's transmix facilities processed approximately 10.4 million and 10.0 million barrels of transmix in 2010 an d 2009, respectively. markets. the gulf and east coast refined petroleum products distribution system, particularly the mid-atlantic region, is the target market for kmp's east coast transmix processing operations. the mid-continent region and the new york harbor are the target markets for kmp's illinois and pennsylvania assets, respectively. kmp's west coast transmix processing operations support the markets served by its pacific operations in southern california. supply. transmix generated by plantation, colonial, explorer, sun, enterprise, and kmp's pacific operations provide the vast majority of the supply. these suppliers are committed to the use of kmp's transmix facilities under long-term contracts. individual shippers and terminal operators provide additional supply. shell acquires transmix for processing at indianola, richmond and wood river; colton is supplied by pipeline shippers of kmp's pacific operations; dorsey junction is supplied by colonial pipeline company; and greensboro is supplied by plantation pipeline company. 17 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k competition. placid refining is kmp's main competitor in the gulf coast area. there are various processors in the mid-continent region of the united states who compete with kmp's transmix facilities, primarily conocophillips, gladieux refining and williams energy services. motiva enterprises' transmix facility located near linden, new jersey is the principal competition for new york harbor transmix supply and for kmp's indianola facility. a number of smaller organizations operate transmix processing facilities in the west and southwest. these operations compete for supply that kmp envisions as the basis for growth in the west and southwest regions of the united states. kmp's colto n processing facility also competes with major oil company refineries in california. natural gas pipelines kmp the natural gas pipelines kmp business segment contains both interstate and intrastate pipelines. its primary businesses consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating. within this business segment, kmp owns approximately 15,500 miles of natural gas pipelines and associated storage and supply lines that are strategically located at the center of the north american pipeline grid. kmp's transportation network provides access to the major gas supply areas in the western united states, texas and the midwest, as well as major consumer markets. texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group and other texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the texas gulf coast, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems: (i) kinder morgan texas pipeline; (ii) kinder morgan tejas pipeline; (iii) mier-monterrey mexico pipeline and (iv) kinder morgan north texas pipeline. the two largest systems in the group are the kinder morgan texas pipeline and the kinder morgan tejas pipeline. these pipelines essentially operate as a single pipeline system, providing customers and suppliers with improved flexibility and reliability. the combined system includes approximately 6,000 miles of intrastate natural gas pipelines with a peak transport and sales capacity of approximately 5.5 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas and approximately 145 billion cubic feet of on-system natural gas storage capacity, including 11 billion cubic feet contracted from a third party. in addition, the combined system, through owned assets and contractual arrangements with third parties, has the capability to process 685 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for liquids extraction and to tre at approximately 180 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for carbon dioxide removal. collectively, the combined system primarily serves the texas gulf coast by selling, transporting, processing and treating gas from multiple onshore and offshore supply sources to serve the houston/beaumont/port arthur/austin industrial markets, local gas distribution utilities, electric utilities and merchant power generation markets. it serves as a buyer and seller of natural gas, as well as a transporter of natural gas. the purchases and sales of natural gas are primarily priced with reference to market prices in the consuming region of its system. the difference between the purchase and sale prices is the rough equivalent of a transportation fee and fuel costs. included in the operations of the kinder morgan tejas system is the kinder morgan border pipeline system. kinder morgan border pipeline owns and operates an approximately 102-mile, 24-inch diameter pipeline that extends from a point of interconnection with the pipeline facilities of pemex gas y petroquimica basica at the international border between the united states and mexico in hidalgo county, texas, to a point of interconnection with other intrastate pipeline facilities of kinder morgan tejas located at king ranch, kleberg county, texas. the pipeline has a capacity of approximately 300 million cubic feet of natural gas per day and is capable of importing this volume of mexican gas into the united states or exporting this volume of gas to mexico. the mier-monterrey pipeline consists of a 95-mile natural gas pipeline that stretches from the international border between the united states and mexico in starr county, texas, to monterrey, mexico and can transport up to 375 million cubic feet per day. the pipeline connects to a 1,000-megawatt power plant complex and to the pemex natural gas transportation system. the mier-monterrey pipeline has entered into a long-term contract (expiring in 2018) with pemex, which has subscribed for all of the pipeline's capacity. the kinder morgan north texas pipeline consists of an 82-mile pipeline that transports natural gas from an interconnect with the facilities of natural gas pipeline company of america llc (our 20%-owned equity investee and referred to in this report as ngpl) in lamar county, texas to a 1,750-megawatt electric generating facility located in forney, texas, 15 miles east of dallas, texas. it has the capacity to transport 325 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and is fully subscribed under a long-term contract that expires in 2032. the system is bi-directional, permitting deliveries of additional supply from the barnett shale area to ngpl's pipeline as well as power plants in the area. 18 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group also owns and operates various gathering systems in southern and eastern texas. these systems aggregate natural gas supplies into the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group's main transmission pipelines, and in certain cases, aggregate natural gas that must be processed or treated at its own or third-party facilities. the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group owns plants that can process up to 135 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for liquids extraction, and has contractual rights to process approximately 550 million cubic feet per day of natural gas at third-party owned facilities. the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group also shares in gas processing margins on gas processed at certain third-party owned facilities.&#1 60; additionally, the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group owns and operates three natural gas treating plants that provide carbon dioxide and/or hydrogen sulfide removal. the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group can treat up to 85 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for carbon dioxide removal at its plant in fandango complex in zapata county, texas, 50 million cubic feet per day of natural gas at its indian rock plant in upshur county, texas and approximately 45 million cubic feet per day of natural gas at its thompsonville facility located in jim hogg county, texas. the north dayton natural gas storage facility, located in liberty county, texas, has three storage caverns providing approximately 16.5 billion cubic feet of total capacity, consisting of 11.0 billion cubic feet of working capacity and 5.5 billion cubic feet of cushion gas. kmp also owns the west clear lake natural gas storage facility located in harris county, texas, and kmp leases five salt dome caverns located near markham, texas in matagorda county, and two salt dome caverns located in brazoria county, texas. pursuant to a long term contract that expires in 2012, shell energy north america (us), l.p. operates and controls the 96 billion cubic feet of natural gas working capacity at the west clear lake facility, and kmp provides transportation service into and out of the facility. kmp leases the natural gas storage capacity at the markham facility from texas brine company, llc according to the provisions of an operating lease that expires in march 2013, and kmp can, at its sole option, extend the term of this lease for two additional ten-year periods. the facility consists of five salt dome caverns with approximately 22.0 billion cubic feet of working natural gas capacity and up to 1.1 billion cubic feet per day of peak deliverability. kmp leases the two storage caverns located in brazoria county, texas (known as the stratton ridge facilities) from ineos usa, llc. the stratton ridge facilities have a combined working natural gas capacity of 1.4 billion cubic feet and a peak day deliverability of 100 million cubic feet per day. in addition to the aforementioned storage facilities, kmp contracts for storage services from third parties. additionally, kmp's intrastate group owns both a 40% equity ownership interest in endeavor gathering llc (acquired on november 1, 2009) and a 50% equity ownership interest in eagle ford gathering llc (formed on may 14, 2010). endeavor gathering llc provides natural gas gathering service to gmx resources' exploration and production activities in its cotton valley sands and haynesville/bossier shale horizontal well developments located in east texas. gmx resources operates and owns the remaining 60% ownership interest in endeavor gathering llc. further information about eagle ford gathering llc is discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments natural gas pipelines kmp. markets. texas is one of the largest natural gas consuming states in the country. the natural gas demand profile in kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group's market area is primarily composed of industrial (including on-site cogeneration facilities), merchant and utility power, and local natural gas distribution consumption. the industrial demand is primarily year-round load. merchant and utility power demand peaks in the summer months and is complemented by local natural gas distribution demand that peaks in the winter months. as new merchant gas fired generation has come online and displaced traditional utility generation, kmp has successfully attached many of these new generation facilities to it natural gas pipeline systems in order to maintain and grow its share of natural gas supply for power generation. kmp serves the mexico market through interconnection with the facilities of pemex at the united states-mexico border near arguellas, mexico and its mier-monterrey mexico pipeline. in 2010, deliveries through the existing interconnection near arguellas fluctuated from zero to approximately 276 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. deliveries to monterrey also ranged from zero to 338 million cubic feet per day. kmp primarily provides transport service to these markets on a fee for service basis, including a significant demand component, which is paid regardless of actual throughput. revenues earned from activities in mexico are paid in u.s. dollar equivalent. supply. kmp purchases natural gas directly from producers attached to its system in south texas, east texas, west texas, and along the texas gulf coast. in addition, kmp also purchases gas at interconnects with third-party interstate and intrastate pipelines. while the intrastate group does not produce gas, it does maintain an active well connection program in order to offset natural declines in production along its system and to secure supplies for additional demand in its market area. the intrastate system has access to both onshore and offshore sources of supply and liquefied natural gas from the freeport lng terminal near freeport, texas and from the golden pass lng terminal located near sabine pass, 19 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k texas. competition. the texas intrastate natural gas market is highly competitive, with many markets connected to multiple pipeline companies. kmp competes with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for attachments to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. kinder morgan treating l.p. kmp believes it has the largest contracted natural gas treating fleet operation in the united states. kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan treating, l.p., owns and operates (or leases to producers for operation) treating plants that remove impurities (carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide) from natural gas before it is delivered into gathering systems and transmission pipelines to ensure that it meets pipeline quality specifications. its primary treating assets include approximately 212 natural gas amine-treating plants and approximately 56 dew point control plants. in addition, effective september 1, 2010, it acquired the natural gas treating assets of gas-chill, inc., as discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments natural gas pipelines&#8212 ;kmp. the amine treating process involves a continuous circulation of a liquid chemical called amine that physically contacts with the natural gas. amine has a chemical affinity for hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide that allows it to remove these impurities from the gas. after mixing, gas and reacted amine are separated and the impurities are removed from the amine by heating. treating plants are sized by the amine circulation capacity in terms of gallons per minute. dew point control is complementary to kmp's treating business, as pipeline companies enforce gas quality specifications to lower the hydrocarbon dew point of the gas they receive and transport. a higher relative dew point can sometimes cause liquid hydrocarbons to condense in the pipeline and cause operating problems and gas quality issues to the downstream markets. hydrocarbon dew point plants, which consist of skid mounted processing equipment, remove these hydrocarbons. these plants lower the temperature of the gas stream and collect the liquids before they enter the downstream pipeline. as of december 31, 2010, kmp had approximately 268 treating and hydrocarbon dew point control plants in operation. kmp typically charges a fixed monthly rental fee plus, in those instances where it operates the equipment, a fixed monthly operating fee. supply. natural gas from certain formations is high in carbon dioxide, which generally needs to be removed before introduction of the gas into transportation pipelines. many of kmp's active plants are treating natural gas from the wilcox and edwards gas formations in the texas gulf coast, and the haynesville shale gas formation in north louisiana and east texas, all of which are deep formations that are high in carbon dioxide. markets. shale reservoirs being developed today have concentrations of carbon dioxide above the normal pipeline quality specifications of 2.0%. the eagle ford shale gas formation in south texas and the bossier shale gas formation in north louisiana and east texas are experiencing robust development, and kmp believes that its treating business strategy is well suited to the producers in these areas. competition. kmp's natural gas treating operations face competition from manufacturers of new treating and hydrocarbon dew point control plants and from a number of regional operators that provide plants and similar operations. kmp also faces competition from vendors of used equipment that occasionally operate plants for producers. in addition, kmp may lose business to natural gas gatherers who have underutilized treating or processing capacity. kmp may also lose wellhead treating opportunities to blending, which is a pipeline company's ability to waive quality specifications and allow producers to deliver their contaminated natural gas untreated. this is generally referred to as blending because of the receiving company's a bility to blend this natural gas with cleaner natural gas in the pipeline such that the resulting natural gas meets pipeline specification. kinderhawk field services llc in may 2010, kmp's subsidiary km gathering llc purchased a 50% ownership interest in kinderhawk field services llc, which gathers and treats natural gas in the haynesville shale gas formation located in northwest louisiana. a subsidiary of petrohawk energy corporation owns the remaining 50% ownership interest. kinderhawk's assets consist of more than 365 miles of natural gas gathering pipeline currently in service, with projected average throughput of approximately one billion cubic feet per day of natural gas in 2011. ultimately, kinderhawk is expected to have approximately two billion cubic feet per day of throughput capacity, which will make it one of the largest natural gas gathering and treating systems in the united states. additionally, the system's natural gas amine treating plants have a current capacity of approximately 2,160 gallons per minute. 20 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k kinderhawk received a dedication to gather and treat all of petrohawk's operated haynesville and bossier shale gas production in northwest louisiana for the life of the leases at agreed upon rates, as well as minimum volume commitments from petrohawk for the first five years of the joint venture agreement. since kmp's acquisition, kinderhawk also secured additional new third-party gas gathering and treating commitments. these contracts provide for the dedication of 17 sections, from three shippers, for three- to ten-year terms. the anticipated daily volume from third-parties could approach over 200 million cubic feet per day of natural gas depending on expected drill schedules and operational techniques. upstream kmp's natural gas pipelines' upstream operations consist of its casper and douglas, wyoming natural gas processing operations and its 49% ownership interest in the red cedar gas gathering company. casper and douglas natural gas processing systems kmp owns and operates its casper and douglas, wyoming natural gas processing plants, and combined, these plants have the capacity to process up to 185 million cubic feet per day of natural gas depending on raw gas quality. kmp also owns the operations of a carbon dioxide/sulfur treating facility located in the west frenchie draw field of the wind river basin of wyoming, and it includes this facility as part of its casper and douglas operations. the west frenchie draw treating facility has a capacity of 50 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. markets. casper and douglas are processing plants servicing natural gas streams flowing into kmp's kmigt pipeline system. natural gas liquids processed by the casper plant are sold into local markets consisting primarily of retail propane dealers and oil refiners. natural gas liquids processed by the douglas plant are sold to conocophillips via its powder river natural gas liquids pipeline for either ultimate consumption at the borger refinery or for further disposition to the natural gas liquids trading hubs located in conway, kansas and mont belvieu, texas. west frenchie draw has full capacity dedication through 2014 with two of the area's major natural gas producers: encana and exxonmobil. it treats a natu ral gas stream which contains approximately 4% carbon dioxide down to kmigt's pipeline specification of 2%. the facility's only outlet feeds into the kmigt system. competition. other regional facilities in the greater powder river basin include (i) the rawlins plant, which has a processing capacity of approximately 230 million cubic feet per day and is owned and operated by el paso; (ii) the sage creek plant, which has a processing capacity of approximately 50 million cubic feet per day and is owned and operated by merit energy and (iii) the hilight plant, which has a processing capacity of approximately 30 million cubic feet per day and is owned and operated by western gas partners, l.p. casper and douglas, however, are the only plants which provide straddle processing of natural gas flowing into the kmigt pipeline system. red cedar gathering company kmp owns a 49% equity interest in the red cedar gathering company, a joint venture organized in august 1994 and referred to in this report as red cedar. red cedar owns and operates natural gas gathering, compression and treating facilities in the ignacio blanco field in la plata county, colorado. the ignacio blanco field lies within the colorado portion of the san juan basin, most of which is located within the exterior boundaries of the southern ute indian tribe reservation. the remaining 51% interest in red cedar is owned by the southern ute indian tribe. red cedar gathers coal seam and conventional natural gas at wellheads and several central delivery points for treating, compression and delivery into any one of three major interstate natural gas pipeline systems and an intrastate pipeline. red cedar's natural gas gathering system currently consists of approximately 743 miles of gathering pipeline connecting more than 1,200 producing wells, 89,400 horsepower of compression at 21 field compressor stations and two carbon dioxide treating plants. the capacity and throughput of the red cedar gathering system is approximately 750 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. red cedar also owns coyote gas treating, llc. the sole asset owned by coyote gas treating, llc is a 175 million cubic feet per day natural gas treating facility located in la plata county, colorado. the inlet gas stream treated by this plant contains an average carbon dioxide content of between 12% and 13%, and the plant treats the gas down to a carbon dioxide concentration of 2% in order to meet interstate natural gas pipeline quality specifications. it then compresses the natural gas into kmp's transcolorado pipeline system for transport to the blanco, new mexico-san juan basin hub. 21 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k western interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's western interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the rocky mountain region of the western portion of the united states, consists of the following three natural gas pipeline systems (i) the kinder morgan interstate gas transmission pipeline; (ii) the transcolorado pipeline and (iii) kmp's 50% ownership interest in the rockies express pipeline. kinder morgan interstate gas transmission llc kmp's subsidiary, kmigt, owns approximately 5,300 miles of transmission lines in wyoming, colorado, kansas, missouri and nebraska. the kmigt pipeline system is powered by 25 transmission and storage compressor stations having approximately 157,000 horsepower. kmigt also owns the huntsman natural gas storage facility, located in cheyenne county, nebraska, which has approximately 34.8 billion cubic feet of total capacity, consisting of 14.8 billion cubic feet of working capacity and 20.0 billion cubic feet of cushion gas. kmigt has 11 billion cubic feet of firm capacity commitments and provides for withdrawals of up to 179 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. under transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, kmigt offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and storage services, including no-notice service and park and loan services. for these services, kmigt charges rates which include the retention of fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for in-kind. under kmigt's tariffs, firm transportation and storage customers pay reservation charges each month plus a commodity charge based on the actual transported or stored volumes. in contrast, interruptible transportation and storage customers pay a commodity charge based upon actual transported and/or stored volumes. under the no-notice service, customers pay a fee for the right to use a combination of firm storage and firm transportation to effect deliveries of natural gas up to a specified volume without making specific nominations. kmigt also has the authority to make gas purchases and sales, as needed for system operations, pursuant to its currently effective ferc gas tariff. the kmigt system also offers its cheyenne market center service, which provides nominated storage and transportation service between its huntsman storage field and multiple interconnecting pipelines at the cheyenne hub, located in weld county, colorado. this service is fully subscribed through may 2014. additionally, the kmigt pipeline system includes the colorado lateral, which is a 41-mile, 12-inch pipeline extending from the cheyenne hub southward to the greeley, colorado area. the colorado lateral serves atmos energy under a long-term firm transportation contract, and kmigt is currently marketing additional capacity along its route. markets. markets served by the kmigt pipeline system provide a stable customer base with expansion opportunities due to the system's access to rocky mountain supply sources. markets served by the system are comprised mainly of local natural gas distribution companies and interconnecting interstate pipelines in the mid-continent area. end-users of the local natural gas distribution companies typically include residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural customers. the pipelines interconnecting with the kmigt system in turn deliver gas into multiple markets including some of the largest population centers in the midwest. natural gas demand to power pumps for crop irrigation during the summer from time-to-time exceeds heating season demand and provides kmigt relatively consistent volumes throughout the year. kmigt has also seen a significant increase in demand from ethanol producers, and has expanded its system to meet the demands from the ethanol producing community. supply. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 8%, by volume, of kmigt's contracted firm transport capacity expires within one year and 60% expires between one and five years. over 90% of the system's total firm transport capacity is currently subscribed, with 71% of kmigt's transport business in 2010 being conducted with its top ten shippers. competition. kmigt competes with other interstate and intrastate gas pipelines transporting gas from the supply sources in the rocky mountain and hugoton basins to mid-continent pipelines and market centers. transcolorado gas transmission company llc kmp's subsidiary, transcolorado gas transmission company llc, referred to in this report as transcolorado, owns a 300-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that extends from approximately 20 miles southwest of meeker, colorado to the blanco hub near bloomfield, new mexico. it has multiple points of interconnection with various interstate and intrastate pipelines, gathering systems, and local distribution companies. the transcolorado pipeline system is powered by eight compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 39,000 horsepower. 22 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the transcolorado system has the ability to flow gas south or north. it receives gas from a single coal seam natural gas treating plant, located in the san juan basin of colorado, and from pipeline, processing plant and gathering system interconnections within the paradox and piceance basins of western colorado. natural gas transmitted south through the pipeline system flows into the el paso, transwestern and questar southern trail pipeline systems. natural gas transmitted north through the system flows into the colorado interstate, wyoming interstate and questar pipeline systems at the greasewood hub, and into the rockies express pipeline system at the meeker hub. transcolorado provides transportation services to third-party natural gas producers, marketers, gathering companies, local d istribution companies and other shippers. pursuant to transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, transcolorado offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and interruptible park and loan services. the underlying reservation and commodity charges are assessed pursuant to a maximum recourse rate structure, which does not vary based on the distance gas is transported. transcolorado has the authority to negotiate rates with customers if it has first offered service to those customers under its reservation and commodity charge rate structure. markets. the transcolorado system acts principally as a feeder pipeline system from the developing natural gas supply basins on the western slope of colorado into the interstate natural gas pipelines that lead away from the blanco hub area of new mexico and the interstate natural gas pipelines that lead away eastward from northwestern colorado and southwestern wyoming. transcolorado is one of the largest transporters of natural gas from the western slope supply basins of colorado and provides a competitively attractive outlet for that developing natural gas resource. in 2010 and 2009, transcolorado transported an average of approximately 472 million and 617 million cubic feet per day, respectively, of natural gas from these supply basins. supply. during 2010, 95% of transcolorado's transport business was with processors or producers or their own marketing affiliates, and 5% was with marketing companies and various gas marketers. approximately 65% of transcolorado's transport business in 2010 was conducted with its three largest customers. nearly all of transcolorado's long-haul southbound pipeline capacity is committed under firm transportation contracts that extend at least through year-end 2011. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 2%, by volume, of transcolorado's firm transportation contracts expire within one year, and 64% expire between one and five years; however, transcolorado is actively pursuing contract extensions and/or replacement contrac ts to increase firm subscription levels beyond 2011. competition. the transcolorado system competes with other transporters of natural gas in each of the natural gas supply basins it serves. these competitors include both interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines and natural gas gathering systems. transcolorado's shippers compete for market share with shippers drawing upon gas production facilities within the new mexico portion of the san juan basin. transcolorado has phased its past construction and expansion efforts to coincide with the ability of the interstate pipeline grid at blanco, new mexico and at the north end of its system to accommodate greater natural gas volumes. historically, the competition faced by transcolorado with respect to its natural gas transportation services has generally been based upon the price differential between the san juan and rocky mountain basins. new pipelines servicing these producing basins and a reduction of rigs drilling in this area for gas have had the effect of reducing that price differential. rockies express pipeline kmp operates and owns 50% of the 1,679-mile rockies express natural gas pipeline system, one of the largest natural gas pipelines ever constructed in north america. the system is powered by 18 compressor stations totaling approximately 427,000 horsepower, and the system is capable of transporting 1.8 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas. kmp's ownership is through its 50% equity interest in rockies express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the rockies express pipeline system and referred to in this report as rockies express. the rockies express system has binding firm commitments secured for nearly all of the 1.8 billion cubic feet per day of pipeline capacity. sempra pipelines &amp; storage (25%), a unit of sempra energy, and conocophillips (25%) hold the remaining ownership interests in rockies express. markets. rockies express is capable of delivering gas to multiple markets along its pipeline system, primarily through interconnects with other interstate pipeline companies and direct connects to local distribution companies. the system's zone 1 encompasses receipts and deliveries of natural gas west of the cheyenne hub, located in northern colorado near cheyenne, wyoming. through the zone 1 facilities, the rockies express system can deliver gas to kmp's transcolorado pipeline system in northwestern colorado, which can in turn transport the gas further south for delivery into the san juan basin area. in zone 1, the rockies express system can also deliver gas into western wyoming through leased capacity on the overthrus t pipeline company system, or through its interconnections with colorado interstate gas company and wyoming interstate company in southern wyoming. in addition, through the system's zone 1 facilities, 23 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k shippers have the ability to deliver natural gas to points at the cheyenne hub, which could be used in markets along the front range of colorado, or could be transported further east through the system's zone 2 (rockies express-west pipeline segment) and zone 3 (rockies express-east pipeline segment) facilities into other pipeline systems. the rockies express-west facilities extend from the cheyenne hub to an interconnect with panhandle eastern pipeline company in audrain county, missouri. through the rockies express-west facilities, the system facilitates the delivery of natural gas into the mid-continent region of the unites states through various interconnects with other major interstate pipelines in nebraska (northern natural gas pipeline and ngpl), kansas (anr pipeline), and missouri (panhandle eastern pipeline), and through a connection with kmp's subsidiary, kmigt. the rockies express-east facilities extend eastward from the terminus of the rockies express-west line. the rockies express-east facilities permit natural gas delivery to pipelines and local distribution companies providing service to the midwestern and eastern u.s. markets. the interconnecting interstate pipelines include missouri gas pipeline, ngpl, midwestern gas transmission, trunkline, panhandle eastern pipeline, anr, columbia gas, dominion transmission, tennessee gas, texas eastern, and texas gas transmission. the local distribution companies include ameren, vectren, and dominion east ohio. supply. the rockies express pipeline system directly accesses major gas supply basins in western colorado and western wyoming. in western colorado, the system has access to gas supply from the uinta and piceance basins in eastern utah and western colorado. in western wyoming, the system accesses the green river basin through its facilities that are leased from overthrust. with its connections to numerous other pipeline systems along its route, the rockies express system has access to almost all of the major gas supply basins in wyoming, colorado and eastern utah. competition. capacity on the rockies express system is nearly fully contracted under ten year firm service agreements with producers from the rocky mountain supply basin. these agreements expire in 2019 and provide the pipeline with fixed monthly reservation revenues for the primary term of such contracts. although there are other pipeline competitors providing transportation from rocky mountain supply basins, the rockies express system was designed and constructed to realize economies of scale and offers its shippers competitive fuel rates and variable costs to transport gas supplies from the rockies to midwestern and eastern markets. other pipelines accessing the rocky mountain gas supply basins include questar pipeline company, wyoming interstate, colorado interstate gas company, kern river gas pipeline company, northwest pipeline, bison pipeline and the ruby pipeline, a 680-mile natural gas pipeline currently under construction. the ruby pipeline will extend from opal, wyoming to malin, oregon and is estimated to begin service in the spring of 2011. central interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's central interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily in the mid-continent region of the united states, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems (i) the trailblazer pipeline; (ii) the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline; (iii) kmp's 50% ownership interest in the midcontinent express pipeline and (iv) kmp's 50% ownership interest in the fayetteville express pipeline. trailblazer pipeline company llc kmp's subsidiary, trailblazer pipeline company llc, referred to in this report as trailblazer, owns the 436-mile trailblazer natural gas pipeline system. the trailblazer pipeline system originates at an interconnection with wyoming interstate company ltd.'s pipeline system near rockport, colorado and runs through southeastern wyoming to a terminus near beatrice, nebraska where it interconnects with ngpl's and northern natural gas company's pipeline systems. we manage, maintain and operate the trailblazer system for kmp, for which we are reimbursed at cost. trailblazer offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation, and in 2010, it transported an average of approximately 849 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. in 2009, trailblazer transported an average of approximately 866 million cubic feet per day. markets. significant growth in rocky mountain natural gas supplies has prompted a need for additional pipeline transportation service. the trailblazer system has a certificated capacity of 846 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. supply. as of december 31, 2010, none of trailblazer's firm contracts, by volume, expire before one year and 58%, by volume, expire within one to five years. affiliated entities have contracted for less than 1% of the total firm transportation capacity. all of the system's firm transport capacity is currently subscribed. 24 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k competition. the main competition that trailblazer currently faces is that the gas supply in the rocky mountain area is transported on competing pipelines to the west or east. el paso's cheyenne plains pipeline can transport approximately 730 million cubic feet per day of natural gas from weld county, colorado to greensburg, kansas, and the rockies express pipeline system (discussed above) can transport 1.8 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas from the rocky mountain area to midwest markets. these two systems compete with trailblazer for natural gas pipeline transportation demand from the rocky mountain region. additional competition could come from other proposed pipeline projects. no assurance can be given that additio nal competing pipelines will not be developed in the future. kinder morgan louisiana pipeline kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan louisiana pipeline llc owns the kinder morgan louisiana natural gas pipeline system. the pipeline system provides approximately 3.2 billion cubic feet per day of take-away natural gas capacity from the cheniere sabine pass liquefied natural gas terminal located in cameron parish, louisiana. the system capacity is fully supported by 20 year take-or-pay customer commitments with chevron and total that expire in 2029. the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system consists of two segments. the first is a 132-mile, 42-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas that extends from the sabine pass terminal to a point of interconnection with an existing columbia gulf transmission line in evangeline parish, louisiana (an offshoot consists of approximately 2.3 miles of 24-inch diameter pipeline with firm peak day capacity of approximately 300 million cubic feet per day extending away from the 42-inch diameter line to the florida gas transmission company compressor station located in acadia parish, louisiana). the second segment is a one-mile, 36-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet per day that extends from the sabine pass termi nal and connects to ngpl's natural gas pipeline. midcontinent express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in midcontinent express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the approximate 500-mile midcontinent express natural gas pipeline system. kmp also operates the midcontinent express pipeline system. regency midcontinent express pipeline i llc and etc midcontinent express pipeline ii l.l.c. own the remaining 49.9% and 0.1%, respectively. the midcontinent express pipeline system originates near bennington, oklahoma and extends eastward through texas, louisiana, and mississippi, and terminates at an interconnection with the transco pipeline near butler, alabama. in june 2010, midcontinent express completed two natural gas compression projects that increased zone 1 capacity from 1.5 to 1.8 billion cubic feet per day, and zone 2 capacity from 1.0 to 1.2 billion cubic feet per day. the incremental capacity is fully subscribed with ten-year binding shipper agreements with creditworthy shippers. competition. capacity on the midcontinent express system is 99% contracted under long-term firm service agreements. the majority of volume is contracted to producers moving supply from the barnett shale and from oklahoma supply basins. these agreements provide the pipeline with fixed monthly reservation revenues for the primary term of such contracts. although there are other pipeline competitors providing transportation from these supply basins, the midcontinent express system was designed and constructed to realize economies of scale and offers its shippers competitive fuel rates and variable costs to transport gas supplies from these midcontinent supply areas to pipelines serving eastern markets. competitors to midcontinent expr ess include gulf crossing pipeline, centerpoint energy gas transmission and ngpl. fayetteville express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in fayetteville express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the fayetteville express natural gas pipeline system. the 187-mile fayetteville express pipeline system originates in conway county, arkansas, continues eastward through white county, arkansas, and terminates at an interconnect with trunkline gas company's pipeline in panola county, mississippi. the system also interconnects with ngpl's pipeline in white county, arkansas, texas gas transmission's pipeline in coahoma county, mississippi, and anr pipeline company's pipeline in quitman county, mississippi . it has a total capacity of two billion cubic feet per day, and has currently secured binding shipper commitments for approxim ately ten years totaling 1.85 billion cubic feet per day of capacity. co 2 kmp the co 2 kmp business segment consists of kinder morgan co 2 company, l.p. and its consolidated affiliates, referred to as kmco 2 in this report. carbon dioxide is used in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for 25 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. the carbon dioxide pipelines and related assets allow kmp to market a complete package of carbon dioxide supply, transportation and technical expertise to the customer. the co 2 kmp business segment produces, transports and markets carbon dioxide for use in enhanced oil recovery operations. kmco 2 also holds ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and owns a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. oil producing activities kmco 2 holds ownership interests in oil-producing fields, including (i) an approximate 97% working interest in the sacroc unit; (ii) an approximate 50% working interest in the yates unit; (iii) an approximate 21% net profits interest in the h.t. boyd unit; (iv) an approximate 65% working interest in the claytonville unit; (v) an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit and (vi) lesser interests in the sharon ridge unit, the reinecke unit and the midcross unit, all of which are located in the permian basin of west texas. the sacroc unit is one of the largest and oldest oil fields in the united states using carbon dioxide flooding technology. the field is comprised of approximately 56,000 acres located in the permian basin in scurry county, texas. sacroc was discovered in 1948 and has produced over 1.33 billion barrels of oil since discovery. it is estimated that sacroc originally held approximately 2.7 billion barrels of oil. kmp has expanded the development of the carbon dioxide project initiated by the previous owners and increased production and ultimate oil recovery over the last several years. the yates unit is also one of the largest oil fields ever discovered in the united states. it is estimated that it originally held more than five billion barrels of oil, of which about 29 % has been produced. the field, discovered in 1926, is comprised of approximately 26,000 acres located about 90 miles south of midland, texas. in 2010, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at sacroc was 220 million cubic feet per day, down from an average of 253 million cubic feet per day in 2009. the average oil production rate for 2010 was approximately 29,200 barrels of oil per day, down from an average of approximately 30,100 barrels of oil per day during 2009. kmp's plan over the last several years has been to maintain overall production levels and increase ultimate recovery from yates by combining horizontal drilling with carbon dioxide injection to ensure a relatively steady production profile over the next several years. kmp is implementing its plan and during 2010, the yates unit produced approximately 24,000 barrels of oil per day, down from an average of approximately 26,500 barrels of oil per day during 2009. unlike kmp's operations at sacroc, where it uses carbon dioxide and water to drive oil to the producing wells, kmp uses carbon dioxide at yates in order to enhance the gravity drainage process, as well as to maintain reservoir pressure. the differences in geology and reservoir mechanics between the two fields mean that substantial ly less capital will be needed to develop and produce the reserves at yates than is required at sacroc. kmp also operates and owns an approximate 65% gross working interest in the claytonville oil field unit located in fisher county, texas. the claytonville unit is located nearly 30 miles east of the sacroc unit in the permian basin of west texas, and the unit produced 203 barrels of oil per day during 2010, down from an average of 218 barrels of oil per day during 2009. kmp is presently evaluating operating and subsurface technical data from the claytonville unit to further assess redevelopment opportunities including carbon dioxide flood operations. kmp also operates and owns working interests in the katz strawn unit. the katz strawn unit is located in the permian basin area of west texas and during 2010, the unit produced 284 barrels of oil per day, down from an average of 380 barrels of oil per day during 2009. the decline was primarily due to transition operations associated with converting from water injection to carbon dioxide injection. in july 2009, kmp announced major investment plans to further expand its operations in the eastern permian basin area of texas, and further information on this investment is discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments co 2 kmp. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which kmp owns interests as of december 31, 2010. the oil and gas producing fields in which kmp owns interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which kmp has a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by kmp: productive wells (a) service wells (b) drilling wells (c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,187 1,351 997 738 3 3 natural gas 5 2 - - - - total wells 2,192 1,353 997 738 3 3 26 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k ___________ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2010, kmp did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; a service well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids that enhance recovery or dispose of salt water. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2010. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects kmp's net productive and dry wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 productive development 70 42 47 exploratory - - - dry development - - - exploratory - - - total wells 70 42 47 ____________ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. development wells include wells drilled in the proved area of an oil or gas resevoir. the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that kmp held as of december 31, 2010: gross net developed acres 74,240 69,558 undeveloped acres 8,788 8,129 total 83,028 77,687 ____________ note: as of december 31, 2010, there are no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on kmp's oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests kmp operates and owns an approximate 22% working interest plus an additional 28% net profits interest in the snyder gasoline plant. kmp also operates and owns a 51% ownership interest in the diamond m gas plant and a 100% ownership interest in the north snyder plant, all of which are located in the permian basin of west texas. the snyder gasoline plant processes natural gas produced from the sacroc unit and neighboring carbon dioxide projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units, all of which are located in the permian basin area of west texas. the diamond m and the north snyder plants contract with the snyder plant to process natural gas. production of natural gas liquids at the snyder gasoline plant during december 2010 was approximately 16,100 barrels per day, compared to 14,500 barrels per day in december 2009. carbon dioxide reserves kmp owns approximately 45% of, and operates, the mcelmo dome unit in colorado, which contains more than seven trillion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide. deliverability and compression capacity exceeds 1,300 million cubic feet per day. the mcelmo dome unit produces approximately 1,200 million cubic feet per day. 27 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k kmp also owns approximately 11% of the bravo dome unit in new mexico and approximately 87% of the doe canyon deep unit in colorado. the bravo dome unit contains more than 900 billion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide and produces approximately 300 million cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day; the doe canyon deep unit contains more than 900 billion cubic feet of carbon dioxide and produces approximately 110 million cubic feet per day. markets. kmp's principal market for carbon dioxide is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. kmp is exploring additional potential markets, including enhanced oil recovery targets in california, wyoming, oklahoma, the gulf coast, mexico, and canada, and coal bed methane production in the san juan basin of new mexico. competition. kmp's primary competitors for the sale of carbon dioxide include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain carbon dioxide reserves, and petrosource energy company, l.p. and its parent sandridge energy, inc., which produce waste carbon dioxide from natural gas production in the val verde basin and the pinion field areas of west texas. there is no assurance that new carbon dioxide sources will not be discovered or developed, which could compete with kmp, or that new methodologies for enhanced oil recovery will not replace carbon dioxide flooding. carbon dioxide pipelines as a result of kmp's 50% ownership interest in cortez pipeline company, it owns a 50% equity interest in and operates the approximate 500-mile cortez pipeline. the pipeline carries carbon dioxide from the mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields near cortez, colorado to the denver city, texas hub. the tariffs charged by cortez pipeline are not regulated, but are based on a consent decree. the central basin pipeline consists of approximately 143 miles of mainline pipe and 177 miles of lateral supply lines located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and mccamey, texas. the pipeline has an ultimate throughput capacity of 700 million cubic feet per day. at its origination point in denver city, the central basin pipeline interconnects with all three major carbon dioxide supply pipelines from colorado and new mexico, namely the cortez pipeline (operated by kmco 2 ) and the bravo and sheep mountain pipelines (operated by oxy permian). central basin's mainline terminates near mccamey, where it interconnects with the canyon reef carriers pipeline and the pecos pipeline. the tariffs charged by the central basin pipeline are not regulated. kmp's centerline carbon dioxide pipeline consists of approximately 113 miles of pipe located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and snyder, texas. the pipeline has a capacity of 300 million cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged by the centerline pipeline are not regulated. kmp owns a 13% undivided interest in the 218-mile, bravo pipeline, which delivers carbon dioxide from the bravo dome source field in northeast new mexico to the denver city hub and has a capacity of more than 350 million cubic feet per day. tariffs on the bravo pipeline are not regulated. kmp's eastern shelf carbon dioxide pipeline, which consists of approximately 91 miles of pipe located in the permian basin begins near snyder, texas and ends west of knox city, texas. the pipeline extends kmco 2 's 1,300 mile carbon dioxide pipeline system into a new area with a current capacity of 65 million standard cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day, expandable to 200 million standard cubic feet per day in the future. the eastern shelf pipeline system is currently flowing 15 million standard cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged on the eastern shelf pipeline are not regulated. in addition, kmp owns approximately 98% of the canyon reef carriers pipeline and approximately 69% of the pecos pipeline. the canyon reef carriers pipeline extends 139 miles from mccamey, texas, to the sacroc unit. the pipeline has a capacity of approximately 270 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units. the pecos pipeline is a 25-mile carbon dioxide pipeline that runs from mccamey to iraan, texas. it has a capacity of approximately 120 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the yates unit. the tariffs charged on the canyon reef carriers and pecos pipelines are not regulated. markets. the principal market for transportation on kmp's carbon dioxide pipelines is to customers, including itself, using carbon dioxide for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. competition. kmp's ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other carbon dioxide pipelines. kmp also competes with other interest owners in mcelmo dome, doe canyon and 28 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k bravo dome for transportation of carbon dioxide to the denver city, texas market area. crude oil pipeline kmp's kinder morgan wink pipeline is a 450-mile texas intrastate crude oil pipeline system consisting of three mainline sections, two gathering systems and numerous truck delivery stations. the pipeline allows kmp to better manage crude oil deliveries from its oil field interests in west texas, and it has entered into a long-term throughput agreement with western refining company, l.p. to transport crude oil into western's 120,000 barrel per day refinery in el paso. the 20-inch diameter pipeline segment that runs from wink to el paso has a total capacity of 130,000 barrels of crude oil per day, and it transported approximately 118,100 barrels of oil per day in 2010 and approximately 117,0 00 barrels of oil per day in 2009. the kinder morgan wink pipeline is regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission. terminals kmp the terminals kmp business segment includes the operations of kmp's petroleum, chemical and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines kmp business segment) and all of its coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. combined, the business segment is composed of approximately 124 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 33 rail transloading and materials handling facilities. the terminals are located throughout the united states, in portions of canada, and at a single location in the netherlands. to help management evalua te business segment performance, make operating decisions, and allocate resources, kmp groups its terminal operations into thirteen regions based on geographic location and/or primary operating function, and classifies its terminal operations based on their handling of either liquids or bulk material products. liquids terminals kmp's liquids terminals operations primarily store refined petroleum products, petrochemicals, industrial chemicals and vegetable oil products in aboveground storage tanks and transfer products to and from pipelines, vessels, tank trucks, tank barges, and tank railcars. combined, kmp's approximately 25 liquids terminals facilities possess liquids storage capacity of approximately 58.2 million barrels, and in 2010 and 2009, these terminals experienced throughput of approximately 620 million barrels and 604 million barrels, respectively, of petroleum, chemicals and vegetable oil products. kmp's major liquids terminal assets include the following: the houston, texas terminal complex located in pasadena and galena park, texas, along the houston ship channel. recognized as a distribution hub for houston's refineries situated on or near the houston ship channel, the pasadena and galena park terminals are the western gulf coast refining community's central interchange point. the complex has approximately 26.4 million barrels of capacity and is connected via pipeline to 14 refineries, four petrochemical plants and ten major outbound pipelines. cross-channel pipelines connect the two facilities, and kmp has an eight-bay, fully automated truck loading rack located at its pasadena terminal. at the truck rack, a full range of additive services are provided, including additive systems for biodiesel and ethanol. in addition, the facilities have five ship docks and seven barge docks for inbound and outbound movement of products, and the galena park terminal is served by the union pacific railroad; three liquids facilities in the new york harbor area: one in carteret, new jersey; one in perth amboy, new jersey; and one on staten island, new york. the two new jersey facilities offer viable alternatives for moving petroleum products between the refineries and terminals throughout the new york harbor and both are new york mercantile exchange delivery points for gasoline and heating oil. both facilities are connected to the intra harbor transfer service, an operation that offers direct outbound pipeline connections that allow product to be moved from over 20 harbor delivery points to destinations north and west of new york city. the carteret facility is located along the arthur kill river just south of new york city and has a capacity of approximately 7.8 million barrels of petroleum and petrochemical products. the facility also has pipeline connections to the buckeye pipeline system, a major products pipeline serving the east coast. kmp is currently expanding the facility, adding over one million barrels of new liquids capacity for a large petroleum customer, and it expects this expansion to come on-line in the second and third quarters of 2011. the carteret facility has two ship docks and four barge docks. it is connected to the colonial, buckeye, sun and harbor pipeline systems, and the csx and norfolk southern railroads service the facility. 29 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the perth amboy facility is also located along the arthur kill river and has a capacity of approximately 3.5 million barrels of petroleum and petrochemical products. the perth amboy terminal provides chemical and petroleum storage and handling, as well as dry-bulk handling of salt. in addition to providing product movement via vessel, truck and rail, perth amboy has direct access to the buckeye and colonial pipelines. the facility has one ship dock and one barge dock, and is connected to the csx and norfolk southern railroads. the kinder morgan staten island terminal is located on staten island, new york. the facility is bounded to the north and west by the arthur kill river and covers approximately 200 acres, of which 120 acres are used for site operations. the terminal is connected to the colonial pipeline and has a storage capacity of approximately three million barrels for gasoline, diesel fuel and fuel oil. the facility also maintains and operates an above ground piping network to transfer petroleum products throughout the operating portion of the site, and it has a ship berth that accommodates tanker vessels; two liquids terminal facilities in the chicago area: one facility located in argo, illinois, approximately 14 miles southwest of downtown chicago and situated along the chicago sanitary and ship channel; and the other located in the port of chicago along the calumet river. the argo facility is a large petroleum product and ethanol blending facility and a major break bulk facility for large chemical manufacturers and distributors. it has approximately 2.7 million barrels of tankage capacity and three barge docks. the facility is connected to the enterprise and westshore pipelines, and has a direct connection to midway airport. the canadian national railroad services this facility. the port of chicago facility handles a wide variety of liquid chemicals with a working capacity of approximately 796,000 barrels. the facility provides access to a full slate of transportation options, including a deep water barge/ship berth on lake calumet, and offers services including truck loading and off-loading, iso-container handling and drumming. there are two ship docks and four barge docks, and the facility is served by the norfolk southern railroad; the port of new orleans facility located in harvey, louisiana. the new orleans facility handles a variety of liquids products such as chemicals, vegetable oils, animal fats, alcohols and oil field products, and also provides ancillary services including drumming, packaging, warehousing, and cold storage services. it has approximately 3.0 million barrels of tankage capacity, three ship docks, and one barge dock. the union pacific railroad provides rail service, and the terminal can be accessed by vessel, barge, tank truck, or rail; the kinder morgan north 40 terminal located in strathcona county, just east of edmonton, alberta, canada. the north 40 terminal is a crude oil tank farm that serves as a premier blending and storage hub for canadian crude oil. the facility has storage for approximately 2.16 million barrels of crude oil and has access to several incoming pipelines and all major outbound systems, including a connection with kmp's trans mountain pipeline system. the entire capacity of this terminal is contracted under long-term contracts; and kmp's five ethanol handling facilities, consisting of services offered by its unit train terminaling facilities located at richmond and lomita, california; linden, new jersey; baltimore, maryland; and euless, texas. in march 2010, kmp began operations at its newly-built richmond terminal, which is serviced by the burlington northern santa fe railroad. the lomita facility is a high-volume rail ethanol terminal located on a seven acre site serviced by the burlington northern santa fe railroad. it offers direct connection to shell's carson, california ethanol terminal, the largest west coast ethanol hub and a major supplier of products to kmp's west coast products pipeline system. kmp acquired its linden, baltimore and euless facilities in 2010. for more information on these train terminal facilities and other terminal acquisitions during 2010, see (a) general development of business recent developments terminals kmp. competition. kmp is one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in north america. its primary competitors are imtt, magellan, morgan stanley, nustar, oil tanking, enterprise, and vopak. bulk terminals kmp's bulk terminal operations primarily involve dry-bulk material handling services; however, kmp also provides conveyor manufacturing and installation, engineering and design services, and in-plant services covering material handling, conveying, maintenance and repair, truck-railcar-marine transloading, railcar switching and miscellaneous marine services. kmp owns or operates approximately 99 dry-bulk terminals in the united states, canada and the 30 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k netherlands, and combined, its dry-bulk and material transloading facilities handled approximately 92.4 million tons and 78.0 million tons of coal, petroleum coke, fertilizers, steel, ores and other dry-bulk materials in 2010 and 2009, respectively. kmp's major bulk terminal assets include the following: the vancouver wharves bulk marine terminal, located at port metro vancouver, british columbia, canada. kmp owns certain bulk terminal buildings and equipment, and it operates the terminal under a 40-year lease agreement. the facility consists of five vessel berths situated on a 139-acre site, extensive rail infrastructure, dry-bulk and liquid storage, and material handling systems, rail track and transloading systems, and five shiploaders. the terminal can handle over 3.5 million tons of cargo annually. in 2010, kmp completed a long-term terminal expansion that (i) brought on-line and refurbished additional liquids and biodiesel storage tanks that increased terminal liquids throughput capacity; (ii) installed a new shiploader; (iii) improved marine structures and material handling systems to both increase mineral concentrates operations and significantly improve en vironmental performance and (iv) added a rail receiving and storage facility to handle ferrous granule (slag). vancouver wharves has access to three major rail carriers connecting to shippers in western and central canada and the u.s. pacific northwest. vancouver wharves offers a variety of inbound, outbound and value-added services for mineral concentrates, wood products, agri-products, refined petroleum products and sulfur; the petroleum coke or coal terminals that kmp operates or owns. kmp is the largest independent handler of petroleum coke in the u.s., in terms of volume, and in 2010, it handled approximately 12.6 million tons of petroleum coke, as compared to approximately 12.9 million tons in 2009. petroleum coke is a by-product of the crude oil refining process and has characteristics similar to coal. it is used as a source of fuel in both industrial kilns and in utilities and industrial steam generation facilities, and is used by the steel and aluminum industries in manufacturing processes. a portion of the petroleum coke that is handled is imported from or exported to foreign markets. most of kmp's customers are large integrated oil companies that choose to outsource the storage and loading of petroleum coke for a fee. most of kmp's petroleum coke assets are located in the state of texas, and include facilities at the port of houston and various refineries. these facilities may also provide handling and storage services for a variety of other bulk materials. in 2010, kmp handled approximately 31.6 million tons of coal, as compared to approximately 27.8 million tons of coal handled in 2009. coal continues to be the fuel of choice for electric generation plants, accounting for more than 50% of u.s. electric generation feedstock. current domestic supplies are predicted to last for several hundred years and most coal transloaded through kmp's coal terminals is destined for use in coal-fired electric generation facilities. the cora coal terminal is a high-speed, rail-to-barge coal transfer and storage facility located on approximately 480 acres of land along the upper mississippi river near rockwood, illinois. the terminal sits on the mainline of the union pacific railroad and is strategically positioned to receive coal shipments from the western united states. the majority of the coal arrives at the terminal by rail from the powder river basin in wyoming, and the coal is then transferred out on barges to power plants along the ohio and mississippi rivers, although small quantities are shipped overseas. the cora terminal can receive and dump coal from trains and can load barges at the same time. it has ground capacity to store a total of 1.25 million tons of coal, and maximum throughput at the terminal is approximately 13 million tons annually. this coal storage and transfer capacity provides customers the flexibility to coordinate their supplies of coal with the demand at power plants. the grand rivers, kentucky terminal is a coal transloading and storage facility located along the tennessee river just above the kentucky dam. the terminal is operated on land under easements with an initial expiration of july 2014 and has current annual throughput capacity of approximately 12 million tons with a storage capacity of approximately one million tons. kmp's grand rivers terminal provides easy access to the ohio-mississippi river network and the tennessee-tombigbee river system. the paducah &amp; louisville railroad, a short line railroad, serves grand rivers with connections to seven class i rail lines including the union pacific, csx, and burlington northern santa fe. the pier ix terminal located on a 42-acre storage site in newport news, virginia. the terminal has the capacity to transload approximately 12 million tons of bulk products per year. the terminal can store approximately one million tons of coal, and offers coal blending services and rail to storage or direct transfer to ship. for other dry bulk products, the terminal offers ship to storage to rail or truck. kmp's pier ix terminal exports coal to foreign markets, serves power plants on the eastern seaboard of the united states, and imports cement pursuant to a long-term contract. the pier ix terminal is served by the csx railroad, which transports coal from central 31 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k appalachian and other eastern coal basins. cement imported to the pier ix terminal primarily originates in europe; and kmp's approximately 47 steel and ores/metals terminals located at strategic locations throughout the united states, which transload and handle steel, ferro chrome, ferro manganese, ferro silicon, silicon metal, scrap, plate, coils, bars, slabs, rail, tubes, pipe and rebar. kmp's value-added services include canning, drumming, bagging and filling boxes and supersacks. kmp's handling methods include, but are not limited to, the loading and unloading of barges, ships, rail cars and trucks, and inside and outside storage. combined, these facilities handled approximately 24.7 million tons and 16.7 million tons of steel and steel-related products in 2010 and 2009, respectively. the 48% increase in year-to-year steel volumes in 2010 versus 2009 was primarily due to the difficult economic environment during 2009. while the operating results of kmp's metal handling terminals are affected by a number of business-specific factors, the primary drivers for its ores/metal volumes are general economic conditions in north america, europe and china, and the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption. competition. kmp's bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, other terminals owned by oil companies, stevedoring companies, and other industrials opting not to outsource terminal services. many of kmp's bulk terminals were constructed pursuant to long-term contracts for specific customers. as a result, kmp believes other terminal operators would face a significant disadvantage in competing for this business. materials services (rail transloading) kmp's materials services operations include rail or truck transloading operations conducted at 33 owned and non-owned facilities. the burlington northern santa fe, csx, norfolk southern, union pacific, kansas city southern and a&amp;w railroads provide rail service for these terminal facilities. approximately 50% of the products handled are liquids, including an entire spectrum of liquid chemicals, and 50% are dry-bulk products. many of the facilities are equipped for bi-modal operation (rail-to-truck, and truck-to-rail) or connect via pipeline to storage facilities. several facilities provide railcar storage services. kmp also designs and builds transloading facilities, performs inventory management services, and provides value-added services such as blending, heating a nd sparging. in 2010 and 2009, kmp's terminals business segment, including all bulk, liquids and materials services operations, handled approximately 229,000 and 227,000 railcars, respectively. competition. kmp's material services operations compete with a variety of national transload and terminal operators across the united states, including savage services, watco and bulk plus logistics. additionally, single or multi-site terminal operators are often entrenched in the network of class 1 rail carriers. kinder morgan canada kmp the kinder morgan canada kmp business segment includes the trans mountain pipeline system, kmp's ownership of a one-third interest in the express pipeline system, and the 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. the weighted average remaining life of the shipping contracts on these pipelines was approximately four years as of december 31, 2010. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain common carrier pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. kmp owns a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. trans mountain's pipeline is 715 miles in length. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300,000 barrels per day when heavy crude represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude percentage), to 400,000 barrels per day with no heavy crude. trans mountain is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. kmp believes these facilities provide it the opportunity to consider capacity ex pansions to the west coast, either in stages or as one project, as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in 2010, deliveries on trans mountain averaged 297,000 barrels per day. this was an increase of 6% from average 2009 deliveries of 280,507 barrels per day. the crude oil and refined petroleum products transported through trans mountain's pipeline system originates in alberta and british columbia. the refined and partially refined petroleum products transported to kamloops, british columbia and vancouver originates from oil refineries located in edmonton. products delivered through trans mountain's pipeline system are used in markets in british columbia, washington state and elsewhere off shore. 32 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k in the fourth quarter of 2010, trans mountain completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement effective for the period beginning january 1, 2011 and ending december 31, 2015. trans mountain filed the settlement with the national energy board of canada in november 2010 and anticipates approval in the first half of 2011. express and jet fuel pipeline systems kmp owns a one-third ownership interest in the express pipeline system, and a subordinated debenture issued by express us holdings lp, the partnership that maintains ownership of the u.s. portion of the express pipeline system. through its kinder morgan canada kmp business segment, kmp operates the express pipeline system and accounts for its one-third investment under the equity method of accounting. the express pipeline system is a batch-mode, common-carrier, crude oil pipeline system comprised of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline, collectively referred to in this report as the express pipeline system. the approximate 1,700-mile integrated oil transportation pipeline connects canadian and united states producers to refineries located in the u.s. rocky mountain and midwest regions . the express pipeline is a 780-mile, 24-inch diameter pipeline that begins at the crude oil pipeline hub at hardisty, alberta and terminates at the casper, wyoming facilities of the platte pipeline. the express pipeline has a design capacity of 280,000 barrels per day. receipts at hardisty averaged 200,000 barrels per day in 2010, as compared to 208,246 barrels per day in 2009. the platte pipeline is a 926-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline that runs from the crude oil pipeline hub at casper, wyoming to refineries and interconnecting pipelines in the wood river, illinois area. the platte pipeline has a current capacity of approximately 150,000 barrels per day downstream of casper, wyoming and approximately 140,000 barrels per day downstream of guernsey, wyoming. platte deliveries averaged 142,400 barrels per day during 2010, as compared to 137,810 barrels per day during 2009. kmp also owns and operates the approximate 25-mile aviation turbine fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15,000 barrels. competition . trans mountain and the express pipeline system are each one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and each competes against other pipeline providers. ngpl pipeco llc in february 2008, we completed the sale of an 80% ownership interest in ngpl pipeco llc for approximately $5.9 billion. we account for our 20% ownership interest as an equity method investment. we continue to operate ngpl pipeco llc's assets pursuant to a 15-year operating agreement. ngpl pipeco llc owns and operates approximately 9,200 miles of interstate natural gas pipelines, storage fields, field system lines and related facilities, consisting primarily of two major interconnected natural gas transmission pipelines terminating in the chicago, illinois metropolitan area. ngpl's amarillo line originates in the west texas and new mexico producing areas and is comprised of approximately 4,400 miles of mainline and various small-diameter pipelines. its other major pipeline, the gulf coast line, originates in the gulf co ast areas of texas and louisiana and consists of approximately 4,100 miles of mainline and various small-diameter pipelines. these two main pipelines are connected at points in texas and oklahoma by ngpl's approximately 800-mile amarillo/gulf coast pipeline. ngpl is one of the nation's largest natural gas storage operators with approximately 600 billion cubic feet of total natural gas storage capacity, approximately 278 billion cubic feet of working gas capacity and over 4.3 billion cubic feet per day of peak deliverability from its storage facilities, which are located in major supply areas and near the markets it serves. ngpl owns and operates 13 underground storage reservoirs in eight field locations in four states. these storage assets complement its pipeline facilities and allow it to optimize pipeline deliveries and meet peak delivery requirements in its principal markets. competition. ngpl competes with other transporters of natural gas in virtually all of the markets it serves and, in particular, in the chicago area, which is the northern terminus of ngpl's two major pipeline segments and its largest market. these competitors include both interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines and, historically, most of the competition has been from such pipelines with supplies originating in the united states. ngpl also faces competition from alliance pipeline, which began service during the 2000-2001 heating season carrying canadian-produced natural 33 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k gas into the chicago market. however, at the same time, the vector pipeline was constructed for the specific purpose of transporting gas from the chicago area to other markets, generally further north and further east. the overall impact of the increased pipeline capacity into the chicago area, combined with additional take-away capacity and the increased demand in the area, has created a situation that remains dynamic with respect to the ultimate impact on individual transporters such as ngpl. from time to time, other pipelines are proposed which would compete with ngpl. we cannot predict whether or when any such pipeline might be built, or its impact on ngpl's operations or profitability. major customers our total revenues are derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 kmp business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines kmp and co 2 kmp and ngpl (thr ough february 14, 2008) business segments in 2010, 2009 and 2008 accounted for 44.1%, 44.8% and 63.7%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, kmp attempts to balance the pricing and timing of its natural gas purchases to its natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate uch rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on kmp's pacific operations pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subje ct of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation canadian operations the canadian portion of kmp's crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of canada's national energy board, referred to in this report as neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. 34 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k trans mountain pipeline. kmp's subsidiary, trans mountain pipeline, l.p., previously had a toll settlement with shippers that defined tolls from 2006 to 2010. the settlement expired on december 31, 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2010, trans mountain pipeline completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement for kmp's trans mountain pipeline to be effective for the period starting january 1, 2011 and ending december 31, 2015. trans mountain filed the settlement with the neb in november 2010, and anticipates approval from the neb in the first half of 2011. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the unit ed states falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations. express pipeline. the canadian segment of the express pipeline is regulated by the neb as a group 2 pipeline, which results in rates and terms of service being regulated on a complaint basis only. express committed contract rates are subject to a 2% inflation adjustment april 1 of each year. the u.s. segment of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline are regulated by the ferc. see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation u.s. operations. additionally, movements on the platte pipeline within the state of wyoming are regulated by the wyoming public service commission, which regulates the tariffs and terms of service of public utilities that oper ate in the state of wyoming. the wyoming public service commission standards applicable to rates are similar to those of the ferc and the neb. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates to meet competition, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to offer negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. accordingly, there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay. for example, some shippers may pay a negotiated rate that is different than the posted tari ff rate, and some may pay the posted maximum tariff rate or a discounted rate that is limited by the posted maximum and minimum tariff rates. most of the rates, kmp charges shippers on its greenfield projects, like the rockies express or midcontinent express pipelines, are pursuant to negotiated rate long-term transportation agreements. as such, negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of a fixed rate during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. while rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, the terms and conditions of pipeline transportation and storage services are not generally negotiable. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. on november 25, 2003, the ferc issued order no. 2004, adopting revised standards of conduct that apply uniformly to interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities. in light of the changing structure of the energy industry, these standards of conduct governed relationships between regulated interstate natural gas pipelines and all of their energy affiliates. these standards were designed to: extend standards of conduct regulations to cover an interstate natural gas pipeline's relationship with energy affiliates that are not marketers; prevent interstate natural gas pipelines from giving an undue preference to any of their energy affiliates; and ensure that transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis. on october 16, 2008, the ferc issued a final rule in order no. 717, which revised the ferc standards of conduct for natural gas and electric transmission providers by eliminating order no. 2004's concept of energy affiliates and corporate separation in favor of an employee functional approach. according to the provisions of order no. 717, a natural gas transmission provider is prohibited from disclosing to a marketing function employee non-public information about the transmission system or a transmission customer. the final rule also retains the long-standing no-conduit rule, which prohibits a transmission function provider from disclosing non-public information to marketing function employees by using a third party conduit. additionally, the final rule requires that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. 35 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k this rule became effective november 26, 2008. on october 15, 2009, the ferc issued order no. 717-a, an order on rehearing and clarification regarding ferc's affiliate rule standards of conduct, and on november 16, 2009, the ferc issued order no. 717-b, an order clarifying what employees should be considered marketing function employees. in both orders, the ferc clarified a lengthy list of issues relating to: the applicability, the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees, the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees, the definition of transmission function information, independent functioning, transparency, training, and north american energy standards board business practice standards. the ferc generally reaffirmed its determinations in order no. 717, but granted rehearing on and clarif ied provisions. order nos. 717-a and 717-b aim to make the standards of conduct clearer and aim to refocus the rules on the areas where there is the greatest potential for abuse. the rehearing and clarification granted in order no. 717-a are not anticipated to have a material impact on the operation of our interstate pipelines. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. california public utilities commission rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of kmp's pacific operations pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the california public utilities commission, referred to in this report as cpuc, under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by kmp with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to kmp's ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. certain of the pacific operations' pipeline rates have been, and continue to be, subject to complaints with the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. texas railroad commission rate regulation the intrastate operations of our natural gas and crude oil pipelines in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the texas railroad commission. the texas railroad commission has the authority to regulate our transportation rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. safety regulation our interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by the united states department of transportation, referred to in this report as the u.s. dot, and our intrastate pipelines and other operations are subject to comparable state regulations with respect to their design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management. comparable regulation exists in some states in which we conduct pipeline operations. in addition, our truck and terminal loading facilities are subject to u.s. dot regulations dealing with the transportation of hazardous materials by motor vehicles and railcars. on september 15, 2010, the secretary of the u.s. dot sent to the u.s. congress proposed legislation to provide stronger oversight of the nation's pipelines and to increase the penalties for violations of pipeline safety rules. the proposed legislation entitled strengthening pipeline safety and enforcement act of 2010, would, among other things, increase the maximum fine for the most serious violations from $1 million to $2.5 million, provide additional resources for the enforcement program, require a review of whether safety requirements for high consequence areas should be applied instead to entire pipelines, eliminate exemptions and ensure standards are in place for bio-fuel and carbon dioxide pipelines. the pipeline safety improvement act of 2002 provides guidelines in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the pipeline safety improvement act requires pipeline companies to perform integrity tests on natural gas transmission pipelines that exist in high population density areas that are designated as high consequence areas. testing consists of hydrostatic testing, internal magnetic flux or ultrasonic testing, or direct assessment of the piping. in 36 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k addition to the pipeline integrity tests, pipeline companies must implement a qualification program to make certain that employees are properly trained. a similar integrity management rule exists for refined petroleum products pipelines. we are also subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health act and other comparable federal and state statutes that address employee health and safety. in general, we expect to increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be accurately estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the united states and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental ana lysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the u.s. environmental protection agency, referred to in this report as the u.s. epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations, our dividends to shareholders or kmp's distributions to its limited partners in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $79.8 million as of december 31, 2010. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $79.8 million to approximately $127.8 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 16 to our consolidated financi al statements included elsewhere in this report. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the u.s. epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non-hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated 37 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, also known as cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state and canadian laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the u.s. epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addi tion to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. we believe that the operations of our pipelines, storage facilities and terminals are in substantial compliance with such statutes. the u.s. epa has recently adopted new regulations under the clean air act that are to take effect in early 2011 and that establish requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. the clean air act regulations contain lengthy, complex provisions that may result in the imposition over the next several years of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from the operations of our pipelines, treating and processing facilities, storage facilities, termi nals and wells. depending on the nature of those requirements and any additional requirements that may be imposed by state, local and canadian regulatory authorities, we may be required to incur capital and operating expenditures over the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with maintaining or obtaining operating permits and approvals and addressing other air emission-related issues. at this time, we are unable to fully estimate the effect on earnings or operations or the amount and timing of such required capital expenditures; however, we do not believe that we will be materially adversely affected by any such requirements. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state and canadian laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into state waters or waters of the united states. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the u.s. congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. on june 26, 2009, the u.s. house of representatives passed the american clean energy and security act of 2009, referred to in this report as acesa, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce u.s. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. the u.s. senate has been working on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions, and president obama has indicated his support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. it is not possible at this time to predict when the senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the senate would be reconciled with acesa. 38 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the u.s. epa announced on december 7, 2009, its finding that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment. this finding by the u.s. epa allowed the agency to adopt regulations that began restricting emissions of greenhouse gases from certain stationary sources using existing provisions of the federal clean air act on january 2, 2011. additionally, the u.s. epa has issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the united states beginning in 2011 for emissions that occurred in 2010 from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like kmp's mcelmo dome carbon dioxide field, even when uch production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because kmp's operations, including the compressor stations and gas processing plants in the natural gas pipelines kmp business segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities and require us to install new emission controls on the facilities, acquire allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. kmp is not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. while kmp may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by its natural gas pipelines, such recovery of costs is uncertai n in all cases and may depend on events beyond its control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, energy legislation or u.s. epa regulatory initiatives could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within the co 2 kmp business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although the magnitude and direction of th ese impacts cannot now be predicted, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or prospects. department of homeland security in section 550 of the homeland security appropriations act of 2007, the u.s. congress gave the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. pursuant to its congressional mandate, on april 9, 2007, the dhs promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined risk-based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that dhs determines to be high risk and subject to the rule. therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 8,142 full-time people at december 31, 2010, including employees of our indirect subsidiary kmgp services company, inc., who are dedicated to the operations of kmp, and employees of kinder morgan canada inc. approximately 925 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2011 and 2015. we, kmgp services company, inc., and kinder morgan canada inc. each consider relations with our employees to be good. for more information on our related party transactions, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 39 items 1 and 2. business and properties. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k kmgp services company, inc., a subsidiary of kinder morgan g.p., inc., provides employees and kinder morgan services llc, a subsidiary of kmr, provides centralized payroll and employee benefits services to kmr, kmp and kmp's operating partnerships and subsidiaries (collectively, the group ). employees of kmgp services company, inc. are assigned to work for one or more members of the group. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated and charged by kinder morgan services llc to the appropriate members of the group, and the members of the group reimburse their allocated shares of these direct costs. no profit or margin is charged by kinder morgan services llc to the members of the group. our human resources department provides th e administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to members of the group in accordance with existing expense allocation procedures. the effect of these arrangements is that each member of the group bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. pursuant to its limited partnership agreement, kmp provides reimbursement for its share of these administrative costs and such reimbursements are accounted for as described above. kmp reimburses kmr with respect to the costs incurred or allocated to kmr in accordance with kmp's limited partnership agreement, the delegation of control agreement among kinder morgan g.p., inc., kmr, kmp and others, and kmr's limited liability company agreement. our named executive officers and other employees that provide management or services to us and the group are employed by us. additionally, other of our employees assist kmp in the operation of its natural gas pipeline assets. these employees' expenses are allocated without a profit component between us and the appropriate members of the group. properties we believe that we have generally satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the securities and exchange commission. 40 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to our business we are dependent on cash distributions received from kmp. approximately 97% and 95% of the distributions we received from our subsidiaries for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively were attributable to kmp. a decline in kmp's revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash kmp can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which could be material. new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations. our pipelines and storage facilities are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities, such as the ferc, the cpuc and the neb. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extens ion, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. new regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. for example, the department of homeland security appropriation act of 2007 required the dhs to issue regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present high levels of security risk. new laws or regulations or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business regulation. pending ferc and cpuc proceedings seek substantial refunds and reductions in tariff rates on some of our pipelines. if the proceedings are determined adversely to us, they could have a material adverse impact on us. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the ferc and the cpuc that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system. further, the ferc has initiated an investigation to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines, including kmp's kinder morgan interstate gas transmission pipeline, have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. ngpl recently settled a proceeding brought by the ferc with respect to the rates charged by ngpl. this settlement will result in a reduction i n the rates it may charge in the future. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, to the rates we charge on kmp's pipelines. any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and carbon dioxide transportation activities such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could result in substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury and loss 41 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, if losses in excess of our insurance coverage were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines will require us to spend additional money to comply with these requirements. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to asset integrity. the u.s. dot, for example, regulates pipelines and certain terminal facilities in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the u.s. dot issued final rules (effective february 2004 with respect to natural gas pipelines) requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rules refer to as high consequence areas. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of the costs to comply with the rules are associated with asset integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. changes such as advances of inspection tools, identification of additional threats to integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on the costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future assets as required by the u.s. dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our assets. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for asset integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. we may face competition from competing pipelines and other forms of transportation into the markets we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers, crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the markets that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these market areas is created and persists, our ability to recontract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to market not served by us. cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business. kmp recently completed several major expansion and new build projects, including the joint venture projects rockies express pipeline, midcontinent express pipeline and fayetteville express pipeline. kmp also is conducting what are referred to as open seasons to evaluate the potential for new construction, alone or with others, in some areas of shale gas formations. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on inve stment, results of operations and cash flows. we must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. we obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land for a period of time. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be affected negatively. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and 42 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k renewals of expired agreements. whether kmp has the power of eminent domain for its pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas or carbon dioxide and the laws of the particular state. kmp's interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, kmp must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. kmp's inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect its business if it were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which its pipelines are located. kmp's acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. tightened capital markets or more expensive capital would impair our ability to grow. consistent with the terms of kmp's partnership agreement, it has distributed most of the cash generated by its operations. as a result, kmp has relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund its acquisition and growth capital expenditures. however, to the extent kmp is unable to continue to finance growth externally, kmp's cash distribution policy will significantly impair its ability to grow. kmp may need new capital to finance these activities. limitations on kmp's access to capital will impair its ability to execute this strategy. kmp historically has funded most of these activities with short-term debt and repaid such debt through the subsequent issuance of equity and long-term de bt. an inability to access the capital markets, particularly the equity markets, will impair kmp's ability to execute this strategy and have a detrimental impact on its credit profile. kmp's rapid growth may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations, and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions. part of kmp's business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities. if kmp does not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, it may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. the integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employ ees and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results. kmp may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon its ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, kmp may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that it hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm its financial condition and results of operations. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state or canadian laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls 43 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the united states such as cercla, wh ich impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. in addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities in restricted areas, emissions into the environment, water discharges, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmenta l matters. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in increased operating and capital costs for us. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the u.s. congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. the u.s. epa began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions of certain stationary sources on january 2, 2011, and has issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the united states beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010 from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like kmp's mcelmo dome carbon dioxide field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosph ere. because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our ngpl pipeco llc, natural gas pipelines kmp and co 2 kmp business segments, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such new legislation or regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from ou r customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters climate change. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact kmp's revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on kmp's or its joint ventures' natural gas pipelines. 44 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k the natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, incre ased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect kmp's revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas gathered, treated processed and transported on our, kmp's or kmp joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. kmp's substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2010, kmp and its subsidiaries had $11.5 billion of consolidated debt (excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements). this level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting kmp's ability to obtain additional financing to fund its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting kmp's ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of its business or to pay distributions because it must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on its debt; (iii) placing kmp at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt and (iv) increasing kmp's vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. kmp's ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. if kmp's operating results are not sufficient to service its indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that it incurs, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying its business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. kmp may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about its debt, see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this repo rt. kmp's large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2010, $5.4 billion (47%) of kmp's total $11.5 billion consolidated debt (excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations or as long-term fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and kmp's earnings could be adversely affected. for more information about kmp's interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we do not have an investment grade credit rating, which may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. since the going private transaction, kinder morgan kansas, inc.'s credit ratings have been below investment grade. as a result, we have not had access to the commercial paper market and have utilized kinder morgan kansas, inc.'s $1.0 billion revolving credit facility for our short-term borrowing needs. non-investment grade credit ratings limit our access to the debt markets and increase our cost of capital. the instruments governing any future debt may contain more restrictive covenants than if we had investment grade credit ratings. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing , if needed, may be restricted by these covenants. a downgrade in one or more of kmp's credit ratings would similar ly affect kmp. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. 45 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k there is the potential for a change of control of the general partner of kmp if kinder morgan kansas, inc. or we default on debt . kinder morgan kansas, inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, owns all of the common equity of kinder morgan g.p., inc., the general partner of kmp. if kinder morgan kansas, inc. or we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of kinder morgan g.p., inc. or otherwise influence kinder morgan g.p., inc. through their control of kinder morgan kansas, inc. or us. a change of control of kinder morgan g.p., inc. could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from kmp, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. current or future distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide. some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. in addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. terrorist attacks, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business . the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems or storage facilities. our operations could become subject to increased governmental scrutiny that would require increased security measures. there is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. future business development of our pipelines is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines. without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at a level that encourages producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing margin al reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. more over, we do not have volume commitments from the operators of the acreage that has been dedicated to our gathering systems. changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas. in addition, with respect to the co 2 kmp business segment, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil. each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. throughput on kmp's crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions. over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand. the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future 46 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products. the future success of kmp's oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil producing assets within the co 2 kmp business segment will decline. kmp may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if kmp does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. kmp's development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, bl owouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. the volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on kmp's business. the revenues, profitability and future growth of the co 2 kmp business segment and the carrying value of its oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices. for 2011, kmp estimates that every $1 change in the average west texas intermediate crude oil price per barrel would impact the co 2 kmp segment's cash flows by approximately $5.5 million. prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond kmp's control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the united states; (ii) the condition of the united states economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. a sharp decline in the price of natural gas, natural gas liquids or oil would result in a commensurate reduction in kmp's revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of kmp's proved reserves. in the event prices fall substantially, kmp may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been follow ed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about kmp's energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk energy commodity market risk. our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in 47 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities. the recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the u.s. congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the u.s. congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the dodd-frank act, that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. the dodd-frank act was signed into law by the president on july 21, 2010, and requires the commodities futures trading commission, or cftc, and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. the act also requires the cftc to institute broad new position limits for futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credi t is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condi tion and results of operations. the kinder morgan canada kmp segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of the kinder morgan canada kmp business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between united states and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the united states and canada. volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. in addition, de creases in the prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids will have a negative impact on the results of the co 2 kmp business segment. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 48 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k hurricanes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. kmp's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if the internal revenue service were to treat kmp as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or if it was to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution to its partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. we own the general partner interest and approximately 11% of the limited partner interests of kmp. the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in kmp depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes. to maintain its status as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, current law requires that 90% or more of its gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in section 7704 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the code. kmp has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, on this or any other matter affecting it. despite the fact that kmp is a limited partnership under delaware law, it is possible under certain circumstances for such an entity to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if kmp were to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it would pay u.s. federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would pay state income taxes at varying rates. distributions by kmp to its partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to its partners, including us. because a tax would be imposed on kmp as a corporation, the cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. therefore, tr eatment of kmp as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its partners, including us, likely causing a substantial reduction in the amount of distributions we receive from kmp, in the value of our investment in kmp and in the value of our common stock. current law or kmp's business may change so as to cause it to be treated as a corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to entity-level taxation. members of congress are considering substantive changes to the existing u.s. federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly-traded partnerships. for example, federal income tax legislation recently has been considered by congress that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly-traded partnerships. although the legislation most recently considered by congress would not appear to affect kmp's tax treatment as a partnership for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we are unable to predict whether any other proposals will ulti mately be enacted. any such changes could negatively impact our cash flows, the value of our investment in kmp and the value of our common stock. in addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. for example, kmp is now subject to an entity-level tax on the portion of its total revenue that is generated in texas. specifically, the texas margin tax is imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of kmp's total gross income that is apportioned to texas. this tax reduces, and the imposition of such a tax on kmp by another state will reduce, the cash available for distribution by kmp to its partners, including us. kmp's partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity-level taxation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact on it of that law. kmp has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between it and its unitholders. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of kmp's common units. when kmp issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, it determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and us. 49 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k this methodology may be viewed as understating the value of kmp's assets. in that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and us, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. moreover, under kmp's current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of its common units may have a greater portion of their adjustment under section 743(b) of the code allocated to its tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to its intangible assets. the irs may challenge these valuation methods, or kmp's allocation of the adjustment under section 743(b) of the code attributable to its tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and certain of its unitholders. a successful irs challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to kmp's unitholders, including us. it also could affect the amount of gain from kmp's unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to its unitholders' or the general partner's tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. kmp treats each purchaser of its common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. the irs may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. because kmp cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, kmp adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing treasury regulations. kmp's counsel is unable to opine on the validity of such filing positions. a successful irs challenge to these positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder, such as us. it could also affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns. if kmp's unitholders remove the general partner, we would lose our general partner interest, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage kmp. we own the general partner of kmp and all of the voting shares of kmr, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of kmp, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions. kmp's partnership agreement, however, gives unitholders of kmp the right to remove the general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2 3% of kmp's outstanding units (including the common units, class b units and i-units) voting as a single class vote for such removal; in such a vote, the common units and class b units owned by the general partner and its affiliates would be excluded, a number of i-units equal to the number of kmr shares owned by the general partner and its affiliates also would be excluded, and the remaining i-units would be voted in the same proportio n as the vote of the other holders of the kmr shares; (ii) the holders of kmp's outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote; and (iii) kmp receives an opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner of kmp or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause kmp or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. if the general partner were removed as general partner of kmp, it would lose its ability to manage kmp and its delegation of authority to kmr would terminate at the same time. the general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. while the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of kmp's partnership agreement to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest. if in the future kmr and the general partner cease to manage and control kmp, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. if our subsidiaries, kmr and kinder morgan g.p., inc., which is the general partner of kmp, cease to manage and control kmp, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. in that case, we would either have to register as an investment company under the investment company act, obtain exemptive relief from the sec or modify our organizational structure or our contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company. registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional dir ectors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 50 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer, richard d. kinder, who is also one of our founders. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. risks related to the ownership of our common stock future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock by holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or us could cause the share price to decline and future issuances by us may dilute the ownership interest in our company of our stockholders. we are unable to predict when or whether significant amounts of our common stock will be sold by the sponsor investors, holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or us. the class a shares are convertible at any time into shares of our common stock, and the class b shares and class c shares may convert into shares of our common stock under certain circumstances. the sponsor investors and richard d. kinder have the right to require us to register resales of shares of our common stock received upon the conversion of their class a shares at any time, subject to certain limitations, including, in the case of mr. kinder, transfer restrictions. any future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market by our current holders or us, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities at a time and price we deem appropriate. further, if we issue additional common stock or convertible securities to raise additional capital, the ownership interest in our company of our stockholders may be diluted and the value of our stockholders' investments may be reduced. we also may issue common stock or convertible securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. if any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares or convertible securities that we may issue could be significant. the price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities which is often unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. the market price of the common stock could be similarly volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of kmp, other companies comparable to us or kmp or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general u.s. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts' interest in following our company. we are a controlled company'' within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules, and although we do not currently intend to rely on exemptions from various corporate governance requirements, we may rely on such exemptions in the future. a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a controlled company'' within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules. a controlled company'' may elect not to comply with various corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange, including the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors, the requirement that its nominating and governance committee consist of all independent directors and the requirement that its compensation committee consist of all independent directors. 51 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k we believe that we are a controlled company'' since the sponsor investors and richard d. kinder collectively hold approximately 80.0% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on the election of directors, and they have agreed to vote together on certain matters pursuant to our shareholders agreement, including on the election of our directors. although we currently do not intend to rely on the controlled company'' exemption to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the new york stock exchange rules, we may decide in the future to rely on that exemption. in addition, under our shareholders agreement, if at any time our board of directors does not meet the majority independence requirements of the new york stock exchange or any other national securities exchange on which the common stock is listed for trading, we will be obligated to operate under a controlled company'' exemption, to the extent such an exemption is available to us at that time. if we rely on that exemption, our stockholders may not have the same corporate governance advantages afforded to stockholders of companies that are su bject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the new york stock exchange. our organizational documents and provisions of delaware law we have elected to apply to us contain additional approval requirements for certain changes of control that may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. our shareholders agreement prohibits us from directly or indirectly engaging in any merger, amalgamation, consolidation or other business combination or similar transaction or series of transactions (other than for solely cash consideration) without obtaining the unanimous approval of our shareholders unless the organizational documents and capital structure of the acquiring, surviving or resulting entity preserve in all material respects the economic and other rights (including conversion, transfer, distribution and governance rights as set forth in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareholders agreement), characteristics and tax treatment, including on a relative basis, of the sponsor investors, the class a shares, the class b shares, the class c shares and the shares of our common stock as they exist on the date of such transaction. a determination that a transaction meets the above requirements requires approval by each of the following: (i) sponsor investors holding a majority of our outstanding shares of capital stock then entitled to vote for the election of directors then held by sponsor investors that hold class a shares, (ii) richard d. kinder (so long as he and his permitted transferees hold class a shares), (iii) holders of a majority of our outstanding class b shares, and (iv) holders of a majority of our outstanding class c shares. these provisions will apply even if the offer is considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. if all requisite shareholders other than the holders of class c shares approve such a transaction, we generally may engage in such transaction so long as the class c shares receive the consideration provided in our charter. in addition, if the transaction is otherwise approved by the requisite holders of our capital stock, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder may decide that the hol ders of common stock, class a shares, class b shares and class c shares receive the consideration provided in our charter, regardless of whether such transaction is determined to meet the above requirements. in addition, our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue blank check preferred stock, which if issued could include special class voting rights on a change of control transaction. also, for so long as the sponsor investors collectively have the right to nominate at least five of our directors, change of control transactions will require supermajority board approval. if a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. further, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, referred to in this report as the dgcl.'' section 203 limits the ability of interested stockholders, which are certain stockholders owning in excess of 15% of o ur outstanding voting stock, to merge or combine with us. neither richard d. kinder nor any sponsor investors that are interested stockholders fall within this limitation, and we have elected not to opt out of this provision. accordingly, section 203 will apply to any stockholder that becomes an interested stockholder after that date. these provisions could discourage or make it more difficult to accomplish transactions other stockholders might deem desirable. non-u.s. holders of our common stock may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock. if we are or have been a united states real property holding corporation'' within the meaning of the code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-u.s. holder, or (ii) such holder's holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is regularly traded,'' as defined by applicable u.s. treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-u.s. holder may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above. we believe we are, or may become, a united states real property holding corporation. 52 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k risks related to our dividend policy holders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all. our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes. however, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws a nd other factors. dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the sponsor investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future. the terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances. a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. the general partner of kmp, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support kmp that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. we utilize kmp as our vehicle for growth. we have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest. as the owner of the general partner of kmp, we may take steps we judge beneficial to kmp's growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends. the board of directors of the general partner of kmp may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per kmp partnership unit. for example, the general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's acquisition of a 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture. an example o f action we took to support kmp occurred in 2006 when kmp had missed the annual growth and earnings/distribution targets under its bonus plan, which would have resulted in no bonus payments for employees for their service to kmp. we believed that those bonuses were appropriate and in our and kmp's interest, so we funded the bonuses by waiving a portion of the general partner's incentive distribution. similar or different actions in the future, even if determined to be in our long-term best interests, will have the effect of reducing the cash we have or are entitled to receive from kmp, and reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the kmp level or impair our financial flexibility. if we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the kmp level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. in addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the kmp level, including through acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. we cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. if we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future fin ancial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, while the sponsor investors maintain specified ownership thresholds, any changes to our dividend policy will require supermajority board approval, which may prevent us from modifying our dividend policy to pursue such growth opportunities. an increase in u.s. federal income tax rates applicable to us would reduce the amount of our cash available to pay dividends. further, an increase in individual tax rates could encourage us to conclude that it would be better for our investors for us to use our cash to repurchase shares in the open market rather than pay dividends. this, too, would reduce our cash available to pay dividends. 53 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k there currently is much public speculation regarding the future of u.s. federal income tax rates. we cannot predict whether legislation will be passed and become law that raises tax rates applicable to us or to individuals, or if such legislation were to become law, its effective date. any increase in the corporate income tax rates applicable to us will reduce the amount of cash available to pay dividends. further, any increase in individual tax rates could encourage our board of directors to conclude that it would be better for our investors if we were to use our cash to repurchase shares in the open market. this, too, would reduce our cash available to pay dividends. if we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends. all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries, particularly kmp. in addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as kmp, are not wholly owned by us. when funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us. a number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future. in addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization. the board of directors of kmr, which is the delegate of kmp's general partner, has broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of kmp's business. the establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions by kmp and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level. further, the calculation of kmp's available cash for distribution is at the discretion and subject to the approval of the board of directors of kmr, taking into consideration the terms of kmp's constituent agreements. similarly, while the constituent agreements of ngpl provide that it is the intention of ngpl to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of ngpl and do not control it. the same is true for joint ventures in which kmp owns a n interest, such as rockies express pipeline llc, midcontinent express pipeline llc, fayetteville express pipeline llc and kinderhawk field services llc. the distributions we receive from kmp are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest. the distributions we receive are not as large if kmp distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if kmp's general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock. if we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by delaware law. under the dgcl, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the dgcl, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the dgcl. if, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders. risks related to conflicts of interest the sponsor investors are in a position to affect our ongoing operations, corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests may conflict with or differ from the interests of our stockholders. the sponsor investors collectively own a total of 56.8% of our class a shares, which collectively represents approximately 47.3% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock for the election of directors and 48.8% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock for other matters. as a result, the sponsor investors are able to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. for so long as the sponsor investors own a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, even if less than a majority, they will have the power to determine or 54 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. our shareholders agreement also provides the sponsor investors who continue to own at least 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors with veto rights over specified actions that may impose a regulatory burden on such sponsor investors and requires us to reasonably cooperate with such sponsor investors and their affiliates to mitigate consequences of such actions. we also are required to keep such sponsor investors informed of any events or changes with respect to any criminal or regulatory investigation or action involving us or any of our affiliates. the interests of the sponsor investors may conflict wi th or differ from the interests of our stockholders. the sponsor investors and holders of our class a, class b and class c shares have the ability to nominate a majority of our board of directors. in connection with the conversion transactions, we entered into a shareholders agreement with the sponsor investors and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares pursuant to which the sponsor investors have the right to nominate six of the thirteen members of our board of directors, and richard d. kinder has the right to nominate five of the thirteen members of our board of directors. in that agreement, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder agree with each other to vote all of their shares of capital stock in favor of those nominees. two of the sponsor investors each have the right to nominate two directors as long as they each own 5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. those two sponsor investors and the other two sponsor investors each have th e right to nominate one director as long as they each own 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. mr. kinder has the right to nominate five directors as long as he is our chief executive officer and owns at least 2.5% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. if mr. kinder is terminated as chief executive officer for cause, he will retain the right to nominate one director, which cannot be mr. kinder himself. if mr. kinder ceases to be the chief executive officer for any reason other than as a result of termination for cause, he will retain the right to nominate two directors, one of whom can be mr. kinder himself. if mr. kinder loses such nomination rights, such rights will shift to the original stockholders and other management in specified circumstances. accordingly, even after the ownership in us of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares has significantly declined, they will be able to nominate the majority of our directors. the class a shares owned by the sponsor investors and the class a shares and class b shares owned by mr. kinder represent approximately 78.0% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors (with the sponsor investors in the aggregate holding approximately 47.3% of such total voting power and mr. kinder holding approximately 30.7% of such total voting power). accordingly, the sponsor investors and mr. kinder have not only the right to nominate 11 of our 13 directors, but also the voting power to elect all 13 of our directors. our organizational documents provide the directors nominated by the sponsor investors with a collective veto over substantially all of the actions required to be approved by our board of directors. our bylaws require that substantially all actions brought before our board of directors while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint at least five director nominees will require supermajority board approval, which is defined as the affirmative vote of eight directors when our board of directors has twelve members (while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint five director nominees) or thirteen members (while the sponsor investors collectively have the right to appoint six director nominees). as a result, our board of directors will be unable to approve of any action by supermajority board approval if all of the directors nominated by the sponsor investors vote against such action. the inability of our board of directors to approve specified actions by supermajority board approval as requ ired by our bylaws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if we are unable to take action on critical corporate matters. our certificate of incorporation and shareholders agreement contain provisions renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities. our certificate of incorporation and our shareholders agreement each provide that none of the sponsor investors, the directors nominated by the sponsor investors, the sponsor investors' affiliates and subsidiaries, nor any of their managers, officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners will have any duty to tell us about or offer to us any business opportunity, even if it is the same business or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. these documents also provide that none of the sponsor investors nor their respective affiliates will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any duty by reason of any such activities. for instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer or employee of a sponsor investor or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates m ay pursue certain acquisition or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on 55 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are pursued by such a sponsor investor or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of by us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates may compete with us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies, and they may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsor investors and their affiliates also may pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. we have waived certain potential conflicts of interest between us and the sponsor investors. see our certificate of incorporation and shareholders agreement contain provisions renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities.'' as a result, the sponsor investors and their affiliates may not be liable for pursuing business opportunities and not making them available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are pursued by a sponsor investor or its subsidiaries or affiliates instead of by us. kmp and its subsidiaries may compete with us. none of kmp or any of its subsidiaries or entities in which it owns an interest is restricted from competing with us. kmr and the general partner of kmp have the same individuals on their boards of directors, and a majority of those directors are independent. kmr manages kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner) in what it considers to be the best interests of kmp and its partners. kmp and its subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. among other things, we and kmp have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the kmp level only if kmp elects not to pursue the opportunity. actions taken by our board of directors, and actions taken by the boards of directors of kmr and other of our subsidiaries, may affect the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders. the amount of cash that is available for dividends to our stockholders is affected by decisions of our board of directors and the boards of directors of kmr and others of our subsidiaries regarding such matters as: (i) the amount and timing of cash expenditures, including those relating to compensation; (ii) the amount and timing of investments and dispositions; (iii) our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our subsidiaries; (iv) tax matters; (v) reserves; and (vi) our issuance of additional equity securities, including common stock. many of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, or entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future. many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, which manages and controls kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner), and other entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl. in making decisions in such person's capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment. however, any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr, who is also a director or officer of ours, in making decisions in such person's capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accord ance with his or her fiduciary duties to us. further, the organizational documents of many of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us. in addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. there could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. common stockholders have no right to enforce obligations of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates under agreements with us. any agreements between us, on the one hand, and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates, on the other, will not grant to the common stockholders, separate and apart from us, the right to enforce the obligations of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates in our favor. purchasers of shares of common stock will not become parties to the shareholders agreement. as a result, holders of common stock will not be 56 item 1a. risk factors. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k able to enforce any obligations under the shareholders agreement in the event that we decide not to pursue any remedies available to us under the shareholders agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. contracts between us, on the one hand, and the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares and their affiliates, on the other, will not be the result of arm's-length negotiations. we may enter into additional contractual arrangements with any of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or their affiliates. neither our charter or bylaws nor the shareholders agreement or any other agreements, contracts and arrangements between us on the one hand, and any of the holders of our class a, class b and class c shares or their affiliates on the other, are or will be the result of arm's-length negotiations. our board of directors or a committee thereof will determine the terms of any of these transactions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 99 energy commodity market risk 99 interest rate risk 100 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk primarily through our subsidiary, kmp, we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks, such as weather-related risk, in the ordinary course of business. however, we take steps to hedge, or limit our exposure to, these risks in order to maintain a more stable and predictable earnings stream. stated another way, we execute a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. the derivative contracts kmp uses include energy products traded on the new york mercantile exchange and over-the-counter markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. fundamentally, our hedging strategy involves taking a simultaneous position in the futures market that is equal and opposite to our position, or anticipated position, in the cash market (or physical product) in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, kmp often enters into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby directly offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. a hedge is successful when gains or losses in the cash market are neutralized by losses or gains in the futures transaction. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions only with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's ratings services): credit rating j. aron &amp; company / goldman sachs a morgan stanley a deutsche bank a+ as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide kmp increased certainty with regard to its operating cash flows and helps it undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet distribution targets to its partners. we categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but whose value is uncertain. cash flow hedges are defined as hedges made with the intention of decreasing the variability in cash flows related to future transactions, as opposed to the value of an asset, liability or firm commitment, and we are allowed special hedge accounting treatment for such derivative contracts. in accounting for cash flow hedges, gains and losses on the derivative contracts are reported in other comprehensive income, outside net income reported in our consolidated statements of income, but only to the extent that the gains and losses from the change in value of the derivative contracts can later offset the loss or gain from the change in value of the hedged future cash flows during the period in which the hedged cash flows affect net income. that is, for cash flow hedges, all effective components of the derivative contracts' gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), pending occurrence of the expected transaction. other comprehensive income (loss) consists of those financial items that are included within accumulated other comprehensive loss in our accompanying c onsolidated balance sheets but not included in our net income (portions attributable to our noncontrolling interests are included within 99 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k noncontrolling interests and are not included in our net income). thus, in highly effective cash flow hedges, where there is no ineffectiveness, other comprehensive income changes by exactly as much as the derivative contracts and there is no impact on earnings until the expected transaction occurs. all remaining gains and losses on the derivative contracts (the ineffective portion) are included in current net income. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative contracts is the difference between the gain or loss from the change in value of the derivative contract and the effective portion of that gain or loss. in addition, when the hedged forecasted transaction does take place and affects earnings, the effective part of the hedge is also recognized in the income statement, and the earlier recognized effective amounts are removed from accumulated other comprehensive loss (and noncontrolling interests ) and are transferred to the income statement as well, effectively offsetting the changes in cash flows stemming from the hedged risk. if the forecasted transaction results in an asset or liability, amounts should be reclassified into earnings when the asset or liability affects earnings through cost of sales, depreciation, interest expense, etc. for more information on our other comprehensive income (loss) and our accumulated other comprehensive loss see notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil markets utilizing a value-at-risk model. value-at-risk is a statistical measure estimating the probability of portfolio losses over a given holding period, within a certain level of statistical confidence. we utilize a closed form model to evaluate risk on a quarterly basis. our value-at-risk computations utilize a confidence level of 97.7% for the resultant price movement, and we choose a holding period of one day for the calculation. the confidence level used means that there is a 97.7% probability that the mark-to-market losses for a single day will not exceed the value-at-risk number presented. for each of the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, our value-at-risk reached a high of $6.9 million and $10.4 million, respective ly, and a low of $2.5 million and $2.6 million, respectively. value-at-risk as of december 31, 2010 was $2.5 million, and averaged $4.6 million for 2010. value-at-risk as of december 31, 2009 was $10.1 million, and averaged $7.6 million for 2009. our calculated value-at-risk exposure represents an estimate of the reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on the combined portfolio of derivative contracts (including commodity futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps, basis swaps and over-the-counter options) and corresponding physical commodities assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. in addition, as discussed above, kmp enters into its derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of its business activities and, therefore both in the value-at-risk calculation and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. for more information on our energy commodity risk management activities, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt included in the accompanying balance sheets until such debt is required to be refinanced. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying values of the fixed rate debt included in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets were $14,559.1 million and $13,083.4 million, respectively. these amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, fair values of $15,518.3 million and $13,676.2 million, respectively. fair values were determined using quoted market prices where applicable, or future cash flow discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt for 2010 and 2009, would result in changes of approximately $530.3 million and $503.5 million, respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. the carrying value and fair value of the variable rate debt, including associated accrued interest and excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements (discussed following), was $596.1 million and $558.9 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 100 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k as of december 31, 2010, kinder morgan kansas, inc. and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with a notional principal amount of $725.0 million and $4.8 billion, respectively. as of december 31, 2009, kinder morgan kansas, inc. and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with a notional principal amount of $725.0 million and $5.2 billion, respectively. an interest rate swap agreement is a contractual agreement entered into between two counterparties under which each agrees to make periodic interest payments to the other for an agreed period of time based upon a predetermined amount of principal, which is called the notional principal amount. normally at each payment or settlement date, the party who owes more pays the net amount; so at any given settlement date only one party actually makes a payment. the principal amount is notional because there is no need to exchange actual amounts of principal. a hypothetical 10% change of the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 45 basis points in 2010) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $27.4 million and $30.2 million, respectively, in our 2010 and 2009 annual pre-tax earnings. interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of transforming a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt included our the accompanying balance sheets due to market rate changes. as of both december 31, 2010 and 2009, all of kinder morgan kansas, inc.'s and kmp's interest rate swap agreements represented fixed-for-variable rate swaps, where each agreed to pay its counterparties a variable rate of interest on a notional principal amount, comprised of principal amounts from various series of its long-term fixed rate senior notes. in exchange, the counterparties agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest, thereby allowing fixed rate liabilities to transform into variable rate obligations without the incurrence of additional loan origination or conversion costs. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time through our subsidiaries, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. in general, kmp attempts to maintain an overall target mix of approximately 50% fixed rate debt and 50% of variable rate debt, and typically kinder morgan kansas, inc., excluding kmp, targets well below that level for variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 20% of kinder morgan kansas, inc.'s debt, excluding that of kmp, is variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, our cash and investment portfolio included $8.2 million and $13.2 million, respectively, in fixed-income debt securities. these amounts are included in investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets at each reporting date and are not material to our consolidated balance sheets. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information related to our debt instruments; for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.risk factors 36 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we (primarily through kmp and epb) regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, if applicable, and approval of the parties' respective boards of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we own and manage a diversified portfolio of energy transportation and storage assets. our operations are conducted through the following reportable business segments: natural gas pipelines for all periods presented in our financial statements this segment consists of approximately 62,000 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines and gathering lines, plus natural gas storage, treating and processing facilities, through which natural gas is gathered, transported, stored, treated, processed and sold and equity earnings from our 20% interest in ngpl holdco llc. following our may 25, 2012 ep acquisition, this segment also includes the natural gas operations of ep, its subsidiaries (including epb) and its equity investments; products pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 8,600 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines that deliver gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel and natural gas liquids to various markets; plus approximately 62 associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix processing facilities serving customers across the u.s.; co 2 kmp which produces, markets and transports, through approximately 1,500 miles of pipelines, carbon dioxide to oil fields that use carbon dioxide to increase production of oil; owns interests in and/or operates seven oil fields in west texas; and owns and operates a 450-mile crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals kmp which consists of approximately 113 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 35 rail transloading and materials handling facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada, which together transload, store and deliver a wide variety of bulk, petroleum, petrochemical and other liquids products for customers across the u.s. and canada; kinder morgan canada kmp which transports crude oil and refined petroleum products through over 2,500 miles of pipelines from alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, the state of washington and the rocky mountains and central regions of the u.s.; plus five associated product terminal facilities; and other in 2010, this segment primarily consisted of our power facility which was sold on october 22, 2010. following our may 25, 2012 ep acquisition, this segment primarily includes several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities. these contracts obligate ep to sell natural gas to these plants and have various expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2028. this segment also included an interest in the bolivia to brazil pipeline, which we sold for $88 million on january 18, 2013. natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our non-ferc regulated assets are contained in kmp's midstream group. our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) kmp's assets - approximately 34,000 miles of natural gas pipelines; and (ii) epb's assets - approximately 13,000 miles of natural gas pipelines; and (iii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 15,000 miles of natural gas pipelines (excludes kmi's 50% interest in epng, which is included in kmp's mileage), along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, that are strategically located 13 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. kmp's transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas in the western u.s., texas, the midwest and northeast, as well as major consumer markets. epb's transportation network provides access to the major gas supply areas and consumer markets in the rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. epb's lng storage and regasification terminal also serves natural gas supply areas in the southeast. kmp kmp midstream group texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the texas gulf coast, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems: (i) kinder morgan texas pipeline; (ii) kinder morgan tejas pipeline; (iii) mier-monterrey mexico pipeline; and (iv) kinder morgan north texas pipeline. the two largest systems in the group are kinder morgan texas pipeline and our kinder morgan tejas pipeline. these pipelines essentially operate as a single pipeline system, providing customers and suppliers with improved flexibility and reliability. the combined system includes approximately 5,800 miles of intrastate natural gas pipelines with a peak transport and sales capacity of approximately 5.5 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas and approximately 130 billion cubic feet of on-system natural gas storage capacity, including approximately 11 billion cubic feet contracted from third parties. in addition, the combined system (i) has facilities to both treat approximately 180 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide removal, and to process approximately 85 million cubic feet per day of natural gas for liquids extraction and (ii) holds contractual rights to process natural gas at certain third party facilities. the mier-monterrey pipeline consists of a 95-mile natural gas pipeline that stretches from the international border between the u.s. and mexico in starr county, texas, to monterrey, mexico and can transport up to 425 million cubic feet per day. the pipeline connects to the pemex natural gas transportation system and serves a 1,000-megawatt power plant complex. kmp has entered into a long-term contract (expiring in 2018) with pemex, which has subscribed for substantially all of the pipeline's capacity. kmp's kinder morgan north texas pipeline consists of an 82-mile pipeline that transports natural gas from an interconnect with the facilities of natural gas pipeline company of america llc (a 20%-owned equity investee of us and referred to in this report as ngpl) in lamar county, texas to a 1,750-megawatt electricity generating facility located in forney, texas, 15 miles east of dallas, texas and to a 1,000 megawatt facility located near paris, texas. it has the capacity to transport 325 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and is fully subscribed under a long-term contract that expires in 2032. the system is bi-directional, permitting deliveries of additional supply from the barnett shale area to ngpl's pipeline as well as power plants in the area. texas is one of the largest natural gas consuming states in the country. the natural gas demand profile in kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group's market area is primarily composed of industrial (including on-site cogeneration facilities), merchant and utility power, and local natural gas distribution consumption. the industrial demand is primarily a year-round load. merchant and utility power demand peaks in the summer months and is complemented by local natural gas distribution demand that peaks in the winter months. collectively, kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline system primarily serves the texas gulf coast by selling, transporting, processing and treating natural gas from multiple onshore and offshore supply sources to serve the houston/beaumont/port arthur/austin industrial markets, local natural gas distribution utilities, electric utilities and merchant power generation markets. it serves as a buyer and seller of natural gas, as well as a transporter of natural gas. in 2012, the four natural gas pipeline systems in the texas intrastate group provided an average of approximately 2.69 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas transport services. the texas intrastate group also sold approximately 879.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 2012. the purchases and sales of natural gas are primarily priced with reference to market prices in the consuming region of the system. the difference between the purchase and sale prices is the rough equivalent of a transportation fee and fuel costs. generally, kmp purchases natural gas directly from producers with reserves connected to its intrastate natural gas system in south texas, east texas, west texas, and along the texas gulf coast. in addition, kmp also purchase gas at interconnects with third-party interstate and intrastate pipelines. while the intrastate group does not produce gas, it does maintain an active well connection program in order to offset natural declines in production along its system and to secure 14 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) supplies for additional demand in its market area. kmp's intrastate system has access to both onshore and offshore sources of supply, and is interconnected with both liquefied natural gas import terminals located on the texas gulf coast. the intrastate group also has access to markets within and outside of texas through interconnections with numerous interstate natural gas pipelines. kinder morgan treating l.p. kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan treating, l.p., owns and operates (or leases to producers for operation) treating plants that remove impurities (such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide) and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas before it is delivered into gathering systems and transmission pipelines to ensure that it meets pipeline quality specifications. additionally, its subsidiary km treating production llc, acquired on november 30, 2011, designs, constructs, and sells custom and stock natural gas treating plants and condensate stabilizers. kmp's rental fleet of treating assets includes approximately 212 natural gas amine-treating plants, approximately 55 hydrocarbon dew point control plants, and more than 178 mechanical refrigeration units that are used to remove impurities and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas streams prior to entering transmission pipelines. kinderhawk field services llc kinderhawk field services llc gathers and treats natural gas in the haynesville shale gas formation located in northwest louisiana. its assets currently consist of approximately 479 miles of natural gas gathering pipeline currently in service and natural gas amine treating plants having a current capacity of approximately 2,600 gallons per minute. the system is designed to have approximately 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of throughput capacity. the 2012 average annual throughput was approximately 1.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas; however, volumes on the system are declining due to reduced drilling activities. kinderhawk owns life of lease dedications to gather and treat substantially all of petrohawk energy corporation's (a subsidiary of bhp billiton) operated haynesville and bossier shale gas production in northwest louisiana at agreed upon rates, as well as minimum volume commitments for a five year term that expires in may 2015. kinderhawk also holds additional third-party gas gathering and treating commitments. eaglehawk field services llc. eaglehawk field services llc provides natural gas and condensate gathering, treating, condensate stabilization and transportation services in the eagle ford shale formation in south texas. we own a 25% equity ownership in eaglehawk field services llc. petrohawk energy corporation, a subsidiary of bhp billiton operates eaglehawk field services llc and owns the remaining 75% ownership interest. eaglehawk owns two midstream gathering systems in and around petrohawk's hawkville and black hawk areas of the eagle ford shale formation and combined, its assets consist of more than 388 miles of gas gathering pipelines and approximately 266 miles of condensate lines. eaglehawk has a life of lease dedication of certain of petrohawk's eagle ford reserves, and to a limited extent, contracts with other eagle ford producers to provide natural gas and condensate gathering, treating, condensate stabilization and transportation services. eagle ford gathering llc kmp owns a 50% equity interest in eagle ford gathering llc, a joint venture that provides natural gas gathering, transportation and processing services to natural gas producers in the eagle ford shale gas formation in south texas. it is owned 50% by kmp and 50% by copano. copano also serves as operator and managing member. combined, the eagle ford gathering system has approximately 180 miles of pipelines with capacity to gather and process over 700 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. the joint venture has executed long term firm service agreements with multiple producers for the vast majority of its processing capacity, and has also executed interruptible service agreements with multiple producers under which natural gas can flow on a as capacity is available basis. red cedar gathering company kmp owns a 49% equity interest in red cedar gathering company, a joint venture organized in august 1994 and referred to in this report as red cedar. red cedar owns and operates natural gas gathering, compression and treating facilities in the ignacio blanco field in la plata county, colorado. the remaining 51% interest in red cedar is owned by the southern ute indian tribe. red cedar's natural gas gathering system currently consists of approximately 755 miles of gathering pipeline connecting more than 900 producing wells, 133,400 horsepower of compression at 20 field compressor stations and three 15 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) carbon dioxide treating plants. throughput capacity of the red cedar gathering system is approximately 600 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and treating capacity is approximately 800 million cubic feet per day. el paso midstream investment company kmp and kmi each own a 50% interest in epmic. effective june 1, 2012, kmp acquired its 50% ownership interest in epmic, a joint venture that owns (i) the altamont natural gas gathering, processing and treating assets located in the uinta basin in utah and (ii) the camino real natural gas and oil gathering systems located in the eagle ford shale formation in south texas. the altamont system consists of over 1,200 miles of pipeline infrastructure, over 450 well connections with producers, a natural gas processing plant with a design capacity of 60 million cubic feet per day which is being expanded to 80 million cubic feet per day, and a natural gas liquids fractionator with a design capacity of 5,600 barrels per day. the camino real gathering system has the capacity to gather 150 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and 110,000 barrels per day of crude oil. kmi, through its ep acquisition, owns the remaining 50% , and as a result we began consolidating epmic into our financial statements as of june 1, 2012. endeavor gathering llc kmp owns a 40% equity interest in endeavor gathering llc, which provides natural gas gathering service to gmx resources and others in the cotton valley sands and haynesville/bossier shale horizontal well developments located in east texas. gmx resources, inc. operates and owns the remaining 60% ownership interest in endeavor gathering llc. endeavor's gathering system consists of over 100 miles of gathering lines and 25,000 horsepower of compression. the natural gas gathering system has takeaway capacity of approximately 115 million cubic feet per day. pecos valley producer services llc kmp owns a 50% equity interest in pecos valley producer services llc, a joint venture with prism midstream formed to develop natural gas gathering, processing and related opportunities in and around reeves county, texas. the joint venture's current activities include moving crude oil and natural gas liquids through a commodity rail terminal in pecos, texas that began operations on may 1, 2012. the terminal serves the growing oil and natural gas industries in the permian basin and offers a variety of services to producers including crude oil hauling, storage, transloading and marketing. the facility is operated by a subsidiary of watco companies, llc, and is the largest privately held shortline railroad company in the u.s. kmp holds a preferred equity position in watco. kmp natural gas pipelines tennessee gas pipeline company, l.l.c. kmp's subsidiary, tgp, owns the approximate 13,900-mile tennessee gas natural gas pipeline system. kmp acquired tgp from us in the august 2012 drop-down transaction. the system has a design capacity of approximately 8.0 billion cubic feet per day for natural gas, and during 2012, the average throughput was 7.2 billion cubic feet per day. the multiple-line tgp system begins in the natural gas producing regions of louisiana, the gulf of mexico and south texas and extends to the northeast section of the u.s., including the metropolitan areas of new york city and boston. kmp's tgp system connects with multiple pipelines (including interconnects at the u.s.-mexico border and the u.s.-canada border) that provide customers with access to diverse sources of supply and various natural gas markets. the pipeline system is also connected to four major shale formations: (i) the haynesville shale formation in northern louisiana and texas (ii) the marcellus shale formation in pennsylvania; (iii) the utica shale formation that spans an area from ohio to pennsylvania and across the canadian border; and (iv) the previously discussed eagle ford formation located in south texas. it also includes approximately 93 billion cubic feet of underground working natural gas storage capacity through partially owned facilities or long-term contracts. of this total storage capacity, 29 billion cubic feet is contracted from bear creek storage company, l.l.c. (bear creek) located in bienville parish, louisiana. bear creek is a joint venture equally owned by kmp and epb. the facility has 58 billion cubic feet of working natural gas storage capacity that is committed equally to kmp and epb. kmp's tgp pipeline system provides natural gas services to a variety of customers, including natural gas distribution and industrial companies, electric generation companies, natural gas producers, other natural gas pipelines and natural gas 16 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) marketing and trading companies. its existing transportation and storage contracts expire at various times and in varying amounts of throughput capacity, and tgp's ability to extend its existing customer contracts or remarket expiring contracted capacity is dependent on competitive alternatives, the regulatory environment at the federal, state and local levels and market supply and demand factors at the relevant dates these contracts are extended or expire. the duration of new or renegotiated contracts will be affected by current prices, competitive conditions and judgments concerning future market trends and volatility. although tgp attempts to recontract or remarket its capacity at the maximum rates allowed under its tariff, it frequently enters into firm transportation contracts at amounts that are less than these maximum allowable rates to remain competitive. as of december 31, 2012, the tgp pipeline system serviced approximately 439 firm and interruptible customers, and was a party to approximately 458 firm transportation contracts. western interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's western interstate natural gas pipeline systems, which operate along the south central region and the rocky mountain region of the western portion of the u.s., consist of the following two natural gas pipeline systems (i) the combined el paso natural gas and mojave pipelines and (ii) the transcolorado pipeline. el paso natural gas pipeline company, l.l.c. kmp and kmi each own a 50% interest in epng. epng is the sole owner of (i) the 10,200-mile epng pipeline system and (ii) mojave pipeline company, llc, the sole owner of the approximate 500-mile mojave pipeline system. kmp acquired its 50% equity interest in epng in the august 2012 drop-down transaction. although the mojave pipeline system is a wholly owned entity, it shares common pipeline and compression facilities that are 25% owned by mojave pipeline company, llc and 75% owned by kern river gas transmission company. the epng system extends from the san juan, permian and anadarko basins to california, its single largest market, as well as markets in arizona, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas and northern mexico. it has a design capacity of 5.65 billion cubic feet per day for natural gas (reflecting winter-sustainable west-flow capacity of 4.85 billion cubic feet per day and approximately 800 million cubic feet per day of east-end delivery capacity). as of december 31, 2012, the epng pipeline system serviced approximately 80 firm and interruptible customers, and was a party to approximately 180 firm transportation contracts that had a weighted average remaining contract term of approximately 2.5 years. the mojave system connects with other pipeline systems including (i) the epng system near cadiz, california; (ii) the epng and transwestern pipeline company, llc (transwestern) systems at topock, arizona; and (iii) the kern river gas transmission company system in california. the mojave system also extends to customers in the vicinity of bakersfield, california. it has a design capacity of 400 million cubic feet per day (reflecting east to west flow activity). as of december 31, 2012, the mojave pipeline system serviced approximately six firm and interruptible customers of which two held firm transportation contracts that had a weighted average remaining contract term of approximately three years. in addition to its two pipeline systems, epng utilizes its washington ranch underground natural gas storage facility located in new mexico to manage its transportation needs and to offer interruptible storage services. this storage facility has up to 44 billion cubic feet of underground working natural gas storage capacity. the epng system provides natural gas services to a variety of customers, including natural gas distribution and industrial companies, electric generation companies, natural gas producers, other natural gas pipelines, and natural gas marketing and trading companies. california, arizona, and mexico customers account for the majority of transportation on the epng system, followed by texas and new mexico. the mojave system is largely contracted to epng which utilizes the capacity to provide service to epng's customers. furthermore, the epng system also delivers natural gas to mexico along the u.s. border serving customers in the mexican states of chihuahua, sonora, and baja california. transcolorado gas transmission company llc kmp's subsidiary, transcolorado gas transmission company llc, referred to in this report as transcolorado, owns a 300-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that extends from approximately 20 miles southwest of meeker, colorado to the blanco hub near bloomfield, new mexico. it has multiple points of interconnection with various interstate and intrastate pipelines, gathering systems, and local distribution companies. the transcolorado pipeline system is powered by eight compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 39,000 horsepower. the system is bi-directional to the north and south and has a pipeline capacity of 1.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas. in 2012, the transcolorado pipeline system transported an average of approximately 400 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. 17 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) the transcolorado pipeline system receives natural gas from a coal seam natural gas treating plant, located in the san juan basin of colorado, and from pipeline, processing plant and gathering system interconnections within the paradox and piceance basins of western colorado. it provides transportation services to third-party natural gas producers, marketers, gathering companies, local distribution companies and other shippers. pursuant to transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, transcolorado offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and interruptible park and loan services. transcolorado also has the authority to negotiate rates with customers if it has first offered service to those customers under its reservation and commodity charge rate structure. central interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's central interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily in the mid-continent region of the u.s., consists of the following three natural gas pipeline systems (i) kinder morgan louisiana pipeline; (ii) its 50% ownership interest in the midcontinent express pipeline; and (iii) its 50% ownership interest in the fayetteville express pipeline. kinder morgan louisiana pipeline kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan louisiana pipeline llc owns the kinder morgan louisiana natural gas pipeline system. the pipeline system provides approximately 3.2 billion cubic feet per day of take-away natural gas capacity from the cheniere sabine pass liquefied natural gas terminal located in cameron parish, louisiana, and transports natural gas to various delivery points located in cameron, calcasieu, jefferson davis, acadia and evangeline parishes in louisiana. the system capacity is fully supported by 20 year take-or-pay customer commitments with chevron and total that expire in 2029. the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system consists of two segments. the first is a 132-mile, 42-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 2.0 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas that extends from the sabine pass terminal to a point of interconnection with an existing columbia gulf transmission line in evangeline parish, louisiana (an offshoot consists of approximately 2.3 miles of 24-inch diameter pipeline extending away from the 42-inch diameter line to the florida gas transmission company compressor station located in acadia parish, louisiana). the second segment is a one-mile, 36-inch diameter pipeline with firm capacity of approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet per day that extends from the sabine pass terminal and connects to ngpl's natural gas pipeline. midcontinent express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in midcontinent express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the approximate 500-mile midcontinent express natural gas pipeline system. kmp also operates the midcontinent express pipeline system. the midcontinent express pipeline system originates near bennington, oklahoma and extends eastward through texas, louisiana, and mississippi, and terminates at an interconnection with the transco pipeline near butler, alabama. it interconnects with numerous major pipeline systems and provides an important infrastructure link in the pipeline system moving natural gas supply from newly developed areas in oklahoma and texas into the u.s. eastern markets. the pipeline system is comprised of approximately 30-miles of 30-inch diameter pipe, 275-miles of 42-inch diameter pipe and 197-miles of 36-inch diameter pipe. midcontinent express also has four compressor stations and one booster station totaling approximately 144,500 horsepower. it has two rate zones: (i) zone 1 (which has a capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day) beginning at bennington and extending to an interconnect with columbia gulf transmission near delhi, in madison parish louisiana and (ii) zone 2 (which has a capacity of 1.2 billion cubic feet per day) beginning at delhi and terminating at an interconnection with transco pipeline near the town of butler in choctaw county, alabama. capacity on the midcontinent express system is 99% contracted under long-term firm service agreements that expire between 2014 and 2020. the majority of volume is contracted to producers moving supply from the barnett shale and oklahoma supply basins. fayetteville express pipeline llc kmp owns a 50% interest in fayetteville express pipeline llc, the sole owner of the fayetteville express natural gas pipeline system. the 187-mile fayetteville express pipeline system originates in conway county, arkansas, continues eastward through white county, arkansas, and terminates at an interconnect with trunkline gas company's pipeline in panola county, mississippi. the system also interconnects with ngpl's pipeline in white county, arkansas, texas gas transmission's pipeline in coahoma county, mississippi, and anr pipeline company's pipeline in quitman county, mississippi. capacity on the fayetteville express system is over 90% contracted under long-term firm service agreements. epb wyoming interstate company, l.l.c. (wic) 18 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) wic is comprised of a mainline system that extends from western wyoming to northeast colorado (the cheyenne hub) and several lateral pipeline systems that extend from various interconnections along the wic mainline into western colorado, northeast wyoming and eastern utah. wic owns interstate natural gas transportation systems providing takeaway capacity from the mature overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins. the wic system includes approximately 800 miles of pipeline with a capacity of approximately 3,700 mmcf per day. colorado interstate gas company l.l.c. (cig) cig is comprised of approximately 4,300 miles of pipelines with a capacity of approximately 4,600 mmcf per day that deliver natural gas from production areas in the rocky mountains and the anadarko basin directly to customers in colorado, wyoming and indirectly to the midwest, southwest, california and pacific northwest. cig also owns interests in five storage facilities located in colorado and kansas and one natural gas processing plant located in wyoming. cig owns a 50% interest in wyco, a joint venture with an affiliate of public service company of colorado (psco). wyco owns totem and the 164-mile high plains pipeline (high plains) both of which are in northeast colorado and are operated by cig under a long-term agreement with wyco. totem has a peak withdrawal capacity of 200 mmcf/d and a maximum injection rate of 150 mmcf/d. totem services and interconnects with high plains. wyco also owns a state regulated intrastate gas pipeline that extends from the cheyenne hub in northeast colorado to psco's fort st. vrain's electric generation plant, which cig does not operate, and a compressor station in wyoming leased by wic. in total, the cig system has the capacity to transport 4,611 mmcf per day and has storage capacity of 37 bcf. it serves two major markets, an on-system market and an off-system market. the on-system market consists of utilities and other customers located along the front range of the rocky mountains in colorado and wyoming. the off-system market consists of the transportation of rocky mountain natural gas production from multiple supply basins to interconnections with other pipelines in the midwest, southwest, california and the pacific northwest. southern natural gas company l.l.c. (sng) sng is comprised of approximately 7,200 miles of pipelines extending from natural gas supply basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama and the gulf of mexico to market areas in louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee, including the metropolitan areas of atlanta and birmingham. sng owns pipeline facilities serving southeastern markets in alabama, georgia and south carolina. sng owns 100% of the muldon storage facility and a 50% interest in bear creek. the storage facilities have a combined peak withdrawal capacity of 1.2 bcf/d. the sng system is also connected to slng's elba island lng terminal and has 3,892 mmcf per day transportation capacity and 60 bcf storage capacity. the southeastern market served by the sng system is one of the fastest growing natural gas demand regions in the u.s. demand for deliveries from the sng system is characterized by two peak delivery periods, the winter heating season and the summer cooling season. elba express elba express owns the elba express pipeline which transports natural gas supplies from the elba island lng terminal to markets in the southeastern and eastern u.s. under a firm transportation service agreement, the entire capacity of elba express is contracted to shell na lng llc (shell lng) for 30 years at a fixed rate that will be reduced beginning on december 31, 2013 and remains flat thereafter with respect to current facilities. the firm transportation service agreement is supported by a parent guarantee from shell oil company (shell) that secures the timely performance of the obligations of the agreement. elba express was originally designed to transport lng supplies received by slng to markets in the southeast. however, the recent proliferation of gas production from shale formations has shifted the global lng supply dynamics. with this shift, customers and potential customers of elba express have expressed a desire to displace supply from imported lng with domestically produced natural gas. to that end, elba express is currently constructing facilities to effectuate transporting gas from domestic sources to markets in the southeast for a subsidiary of bg group. these new facilities, which are anticipated to be in-service in the second quarter of 2013, will increase the capacity of elba express, which is currently completely subscribed under a long-term contract with a subsidiary of shell. the new facilities will be subscribed under a long-term contract with a subsidiary of bg. revenue from both of these contracts is predominantly based on reservation charges. as such, changes in throughput will have relatively little effect on our revenue stream or profitability. cheyenne plains gas company, l.l.c. (cpg) cpg is a 400-mile pipeline system that extends from cheyenne hub in weld county, colorado and extends southerly to a variety of delivery locations in the vicinity of the greensburg hub in kiowa county, kansas. cpg provides pipeline takeaway capacity from the natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area to the major natural gas markets in the mid-continent 19 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) region and has 1,105 mmcf per day transportation capacity. cpg has high interconnectivity at the cheyenne hub. the cheyenne hub is connected directly or indirectly to all major pipelines within the rockies, which gather from all major producing basins in the region. cpg's interconnects near greensburg, kansas continue to benefit customers in the mid-continent by continuing to provide increased reliability (due to pipeline diversity), increased optionality (due to supply basin diversity), and advantageous pricing (due to gas-on-gas competition). cpg's capacity to move rockies production from the cheyenne hub area remains a vital link and along with sustained growth projections in rockies production through 2022, cpg is well positioned to accommodate any future increase in rockies production. in addition, cpg is ideally positioned to accommodate the expected surge in incremental production from associated gas within the high liquid content plays out of the denver basin southern lng company, l.l.c. (snlg) slng owns the elba island lng receiving terminal, located near savannah, georgia. the elba island lng terminal is one of nine land-based terminal facilities in the u.s. capable of providing domestic storage and vaporization services to international producers of lng. the elba island lng terminal has approximately 11.5 bcf equivalent of lng storage capacity and approximately 1.8 bcf per day of peak send-out capacity. the capacity of the elba island lng terminal is fully contracted with bg lng services, llc (bg lng) under a recourse rate contract comprised predominantly of a fixed reservation rate with a small variable rate component and shell lng under a long-term step-down fixed reservation rate contract (that will be reduced beginning on december 31, 2013 and remain flat thereafter). the firm slng service agreements are supported by parent guarantees from bg energy holdings limited (bg) and shell that secure the timely performance of the obligations of those agreements. the elba island lng terminal is directly connected to three interstate pipelines, indirectly connected to two others, and also connected by commercial arrangements to a major local distribution company; thus, is readily accessible to the southeast and mid-atlantic markets. slng's terminal capacity is completely subscribed under long-term contracts with subsidiaries of bg and shell. revenue from these contracts is predominantly based on reservation charges; therefore, changes in throughput at the terminal driven by domestic or global competition will have relatively little effect on our revenue stream or profitability. since slng's elba island lng terminal is directly connected to three interstate pipelines, and indirectly connected to two others, it is readily accessible to markets in southeast u.s., florida and the mid-atlantic as well as supply from the newly developed shale formations. the recent proliferation of gas production from shale formations has shifted the desire of global lng suppliers from importing lng to the u.s. to seeking opportunities to export lng from the u.s. slng is well positioned for the lng export opportunity. in june 2012, slng received authorization from the department of energy (doe) to export domestically produced lng of up to 4 million tons per year (equivalent to approximately 0.5 bcf of natural gas per day) to countries with which the u.s has a free trade agreement. in august 2012, slng filed an application with the doe requesting authorization to export up to 4 million tons per year of lng from the elba island lng terminal. the authorization would allow the export of lng from the terminal to any non fta country. in january 2013, southern liquefaction company, llc (slc), a unit of epb, and shell us gas and power llc (susgp), a subsidiary of royal dutch shell plc, announced plans to develop a natural gas liquefaction plant in two phases at slng. slc will own 51% of the entity and susgp will own the remaining 49%. slng will modify its facilities at elba island and will operate the facility. phase i of the project, approximately 210 mmcfd (1.5 million tons per year), requires no additional doe approval. other kmi owned natural gas interests southern gulf lng company, llc southern gulf lng company llc owns a 50% interest in gulf lng holdings group llc which owns an lng receiving, storage and regasification terminal near pascagoula, mississippi. the facility has a peak send out capacity of 1.5 bcf per day and storage capacity of 6.6 bcfe. the terminal is fully subscribed under long term contracts and is directly connected by a five mile pipeline to four interstate pipelines and extends to a natural gas processing plant. we expect to sell our interest in gulf lng holdings group llc to epb during 2013. ruby pipeline (ruby) we own a 50% interest in the ruby pipeline which is a 680 mile pipeline extending from wyoming to oregon that provides natural gas supplies from the major rocky mountain basins to consumers in california, nevada, and the pacific northwest. citrus corporation (citrus) 20 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) we own a 50% interest in citrus which own florida gas transmission company llc (florida gas). florida gas is a 5,300 mile open access interstate natural gas pipeline extending south from texas through the gulf coast region of the u.s. to south florida. florida gas' pipeline system primarily receives natural gas from producing basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico, and transports it to the florida market. natural gas holdco llc we own a 20% interest in and operate natural gas holdco llc, the owner of natural gas pipeline company of america (ngpl), which is a 9.220-mile pipeline and storage company. competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. these operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for attachments to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are transportation rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other pipeline projects are proposed that would compete with our pipelines, and some proposed pipelines may deliver natural gas to markets we serve from new supply sources closer to those markets. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane and fuel oils. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. products pipelines kmp the products pipelines-kmp segment consists of kmp's refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids pipelines and their associated terminals, southeast terminals, and its transmix processing facilities. west coast products pipelines kmp's west coast products pipelines include sfpp, l.p. operations (often referred to in this report as kmp's pacific operations), calnev pipeline operations, and west coast terminals operations. the assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc and intrastate pipelines in the state of california, rate-regulated by the california public utilities commission, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. kmp's pacific operations serve six western states with approximately 2,500 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines and related terminal facilities that provide refined products to major population centers in the u.s., including california; las vegas and reno, nevada; and the phoenix-tucson, arizona corridor. in 2012, the pacific operations' mainline pipeline system transported approximately 1,056,600 barrels per day of refined products, approximately 60% gasoline, 23% diesel fuel, and 17% jet fuel. kmp's calnev pipeline system consists of two parallel 248-mile, 14-inch and 8-inch diameter pipelines that run from its facilities at colton, california to las vegas, nevada. the pipeline serves the mojave desert through deliveries to a terminal at barstow, california and two nearby major railroad yards. it also serves nellis air force base, located in las vegas, and also includes approximately 55 miles of pipeline serving edwards air force base in california. in 2012, the calnev pipeline system transported approximately 108,300 barrels per day of refined products, approximately 40% gasoline, 30% diesel fuel, and 30% jet fuel. west coast products pipelines operations include 15 truck-loading terminals (13 on pacific operations and two on calnev) with an aggregate usable tankage capacity of approximately 15.3 million barrels. the truck terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. west coast terminals are fee-based terminals located in the seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas along the west coast of the u.s. with a combined total capacity of approximately 9.9 million barrels of storage for both petroleum products and chemicals. west coast products pipelines and associated west coast terminals together handled 17.4 million barrels of ethanol in 2012. 21 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) combined, west coast products pipelines operations' pipelines transport approximately 1.4 million barrels per day of refined petroleum products, providing pipeline service to approximately 28 customer-owned terminals, 11 commercial airports and 15 military bases. the pipeline systems serve approximately 61 shippers in the refined petroleum products market, the largest customers being major petroleum companies, independent refiners, and the u.s. military. the majority of refined products supplied to the west coast product pipelines come from the major refining centers around los angeles, san francisco, west texas and puget sound, as well as from waterborne terminals and connecting pipelines located near these refining centers. plantation pipe line company kmp owns approximately 51% of plantation pipe line company, the sole owner of the approximately 3,100-mile refined petroleum products plantation pipeline system serving the southeastern u.s. kmp operates the system pursuant to agreements with plantation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, plantation services llc. the plantation pipeline system originates in louisiana and terminates in the washington, d.c. area. it connects to approximately 130 shipper delivery terminals throughout eight states and serves as a common carrier of refined petroleum products to various metropolitan areas, including birmingham, alabama; atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; and the washington, d.c. area. an affiliate of exxonmobil corporation owns the remaining approximately 49% ownership interest, and exxonmobil has historically been one of the largest shippers on the plantation system both in terms of volumes and revenues. in 2012, plantation delivered approximately 512,400 barrels per day of refined petroleum products, approximately 68% gasoline, 19% diesel fuel, and 13% jet fuel. products shipped on plantation originate at various gulf coast refineries from which major integrated oil companies and independent refineries and wholesalers ship refined petroleum products, from other products pipeline systems, and via marine facilities located along the mississippi river. plantation ships products for approximately 30 companies to terminals throughout the southeastern u.s. plantation's principal customers are gulf coast refining and marketing companies, and fuel wholesalers. central florida pipeline kmp's central florida pipeline system consists of a 110-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline that transports gasoline and ethanol, and an 85-mile, 10-inch diameter pipeline that transports diesel fuel and jet fuel from tampa to orlando. the central florida pipeline operations include two separate liquids terminals located in tampa and taft, florida, which kmp owns and operates. in addition to being connected to the tampa terminal, the central florida pipeline system is connected to terminals owned and operated by transmontaigne, citgo, buckeye, and marathon petroleum. the 10-inch diameter pipeline is connected to the taft terminal (located near orlando), has an intermediate delivery point at intercession city, florida, and is also the sole pipeline supplying jet fuel to the orlando international airport in orlando, florida. in 2012, the pipeline system transported approximately 92,600 barrels per day of refined products, approximately 70% gasoline and ethanol, 10% diesel fuel, and 20% jet fuel. the tampa terminal contains approximately 1.6 million barrels of refined products storage capacity and is connected to two ship dock facilities in the port of tampa and is connected to an ethanol unit train off-load storage facility. the taft terminal contains approximately 0.8 million barrels of storage capacity, for gasoline, ethanol and diesel fuel for further movement into trucks. cochin pipeline system kmp's cochin pipeline system consists of an approximately 1,900-mile, 12-inch diameter multi-product pipeline operating between fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario, along with five terminals. the pipeline operates on a batched basis and has an estimated system capacity of 70,000 barrels per day. it includes 31 pump stations spaced at 60 mile intervals and five u.s. propane terminals. underground storage is available at fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario through third parties. the pipeline traverses three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. and can transport ethane, propane, butane and natural gas liquids to the midwestern u.s. and eastern canadian petrochemical and fuel markets. in 2012, the system transported approximately 30,000 barrels per day of propane, and 7,000 barrels per day of ethane-propane mix. in 2014, kmp expect to complete the expansion and reversal of the cochin pipeline system to transport 95,000 barrels per day of condensate from a new receipt terminal in kankakee county, illinois to third party storage in fort saskatchewan, alberta. 22 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) cypress pipeline kmp owns 50% of cypress interstate pipeline llc, the sole owner of the cypress pipeline system. kmp operates the system pursuant to a long-term agreement. the cypress pipeline is an interstate common carrier natural gas liquids pipeline originating at storage facilities in mont belvieu, texas and extending 104 miles east to a connection with westlake chemical corporation, a major petrochemical producer in the lake charles, louisiana area. mont belvieu, located approximately 20 miles east of houston, is the largest hub for natural gas liquids gathering, transportation, fractionation and storage in the u.s. the cypress pipeline system has a current capacity of approximately 55,000 barrels per day for natural gas liquids. in 2012, the system transported approximately 49,600 barrels per day. southeast terminals kmp's southeast terminal operations consist of 28 high-quality, liquid petroleum products terminals located along the plantation/colonial pipeline corridor in the southeastern u.s. the marketing activities of the southeast terminal operations are focused on the southeastern u.s. from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee. the primary function involves the receipt of petroleum products from common carrier pipelines, short-term storage in terminal tankage, and subsequent loading onto tank trucks. combined, the southeast terminals have a total storage capacity of approximately 9.1 million barrels. in 2012, these terminals transferred approximately 383,300 barrels of refined products per day and together handled 12.1 million barrels of ethanol. transmix operations kmp's transmix operations include the processing of petroleum pipeline transmix, a blend of dissimilar refined petroleum products that have become co-mingled in the pipeline transportation process. during pipeline transportation, different products are transported through the pipelines abutting each other, and generate a volume of different mixed products called transmix. kmp processes and separates pipeline transmix into pipeline-quality gasoline and light distillate products at six separate processing facilities located in colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; wood river, illinois; and greensboro, north carolina. combined, the transmix facilities handled approximately 9.2 million barrels in 2012. kinder morgan crude and condensate pipeline the kinder morgan crude and condensate pipeline is a texas intrastate pipeline that transports crude oil and condensate from the eagle ford shale field in south texas to the houston ship channel refining complex. the 24/30-inch pipeline currently originates in dewitt county, texas, and extends 175 miles to third party storage. the pipeline operates on a batch basis and has a capacity of 300,000 barrels per day. pipeline operations began in the fourth quarter of 2012. deliveries for the year totaled 1,416,000 barrels. competition kmp's products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. the products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. co 2 kmp the co 2 kmp business segment consists of kinder morgan co 2 company, l.p. and its consolidated affiliates, collectively referred to in this report as kmco 2 . the co 2 kmp business segment produces, transports, and markets carbon dioxide for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. kmco 2 's carbon dioxide pipelines and related assets allow it to market a complete package of carbon dioxide supply, transportation and technical expertise to its customers. kmco 2 also holds ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and owns a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests 23 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) kmco 2 holds ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, including: (i) an approximate 97% working interest in the sacroc unit; (ii) an approximate 50% working interest in the yates unit; (iii) an approximate 21% net profits interest in the h.t. boyd unit; (iv) an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit; and (v) lesser interests in the sharon ridge unit, the reinecke unit and the midcross unit. the sacroc unit is one of the largest and oldest oil fields in the u.s. using carbon dioxide flooding technology. the field is comprised of approximately 56,000 acres located in the permian basin in scurry county, texas. kmco 2 has expanded the development of the carbon dioxide project initiated by the previous owners and increased production and ultimate oil recovery over the last several years. in 2012, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at sacroc was 118 million cubic feet per day. the average oil production rate for 2012 was approximately 29,000 barrels of oil per day (24,100 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). the yates unit is also one of the largest oil fields ever discovered in the u.s. the field is comprised of approximately 26,000 acres located about 90 miles south of midland, texas. kmco 2 's plan over the last several years has been to maintain overall production levels and increase ultimate recovery from yates by combining horizontal drilling with carbon dioxide injection to ensure a relatively steady production profile over the next several years. in 2012, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at the yates unit was 98 million cubic feet per day, and during 2012, the yates unit produced approximately 20,800 barrels of oil per day (9,300 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). kmco 2 also operates and owns an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit, located in the permian basin area of west texas. during 2012, the katz strawn unit produced approximately 1,700 barrels of oil per day (1,400 net barrels to kmco 2 per day). in 2012, the average purchased carbon dioxide injection rate at the katz strawn unit was 62 million cubic feet per day. during 2012, kmco 2 sold its approximate 65% gross working interest in the claytonville oil field unit located in the permian basin area of west texas to the scout energy group. the claytonville unit is located nearly 30 miles east of the sacroc unit, in fisher county, texas. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which kmp owned interests as of december 31, 2012. the oil and gas producing fields in which we own interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which kmp has a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by kmp: productive wells (a) service wells (b) drilling wells (c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,089 1,311 924 718 3 3 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,094 1,313 924 718 3 3 ____________ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2012, kmp did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2012. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects kmp's net productive and dry wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 24 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 productive development 59 85 70 exploratory dry development exploratory total wells 59 85 70 ____________ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field . the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that kmp held as of december 31, 2012: gross net developed acres 68,945 65,811 undeveloped acres 14,557 13,971 total 83,502 79,782 ____________ note: as of december 31, 2012, kmp has no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see supplemental information on oil and gas activities (unaudited) included elsewhere in this report fo r additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on our oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests kmco 2 operates and owns an approximate 22% working interest plus an additional 28% net profits interest in the snyder gasoline plant. it also operates and owns a 51% ownership interest in the diamond m gas plant and a 100% ownership interest in the north snyder plant, all of which are located in the permian basin of west texas. the snyder gasoline plant processes natural gas produced from the sacroc unit and neighboring carbon dioxide projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units, all of which are located in the permian basin area of west texas. the diamond m and the north snyder plants contract with the snyder plant to process natural gas. production of natural gas liquids at the snyder gasoline plant during 2012 averaged approximately 18,900 gross barrels per day (9,300 net barrels to kmco 2 per day excluding the value associated to kmco 2 's 28% net profits interest). sales and transportation activities carbon dioxide kmco 2 owns approximately 45% of, and operates, the mcelmo dome unit in colorado, which contains more than 6.6 trillion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide. it also owns approximately 87% of, and operates, the doe canyon deep unit in colorado, which contains approximately 871 billion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide. for both units combined, compression capacity exceeds 1.4 billion cubic feet per day of carbon dioxide and during 2012, the two units produced approximately 1.21 billion cubic feet per day of carbon dioxide. kmco 2 also owns approximately 11% of the bravo dome unit in new mexico. the bravo dome unit contains approximately 801 billion cubic feet of recoverable carbon dioxide and produced approximately 300 million cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day in 2012. kmco 2 's principal market for carbon dioxide is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. 25 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) carbon dioxide pipelines as a result of kmco 2 's 50% ownership interest in cortez pipeline company, kmco 2 owns a 50% equity interest in and operates the approximate 500-mile cortez pipeline. the pipeline carries carbon dioxide from the mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields near cortez, colorado to the denver city, texas hub. the cortez pipeline transports approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet of carbon dioxide per day. the tariffs charged by the cortez pipeline are not regulated, but are based on a consent decree. kmco 2 's central basin pipeline consists of approximately 143 miles of mainline pipe and 177 miles of lateral supply lines located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and mccamey, texas. the pipeline has an ultimate throughput capacity of 700 million cubic feet per day. at its origination point in denver city, the central basin pipeline interconnects with all three major carbon dioxide supply pipelines from colorado and new mexico, namely the cortez pipeline (operated by kmco 2 ) and the bravo and sheep mountain pipelines (operated by oxy permian). central basin's mainline terminates near mccamey, where it interconnects with the canyon reef carriers pipeline and the pecos pipeline. the tariffs charged by the central basin pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 's centerline carbon dioxide pipeline consists of approximately 113 miles of pipe located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and snyder, texas. the pipeline has a capacity of 300 million cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged by the centerline pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 's eastern shelf carbon dioxide pipeline, which consists of approximately 91 miles of pipe located in the permian basin, begins near snyder, texas and ends west of knox city, texas. two 500 horsepower pumps were placed in service in 2012, increasing the capacity of the pipeline from 70 million to 100 million cubic feet per day. the eastern shelf pipeline system is currently flowing 64 million cubic feet per day. the tariffs charged on the eastern shelf pipeline are not regulated. kmco 2 also owns a 13% undivided interest in the 218-mile, bravo pipeline, which delivers carbon dioxide from the bravo dome source field in northeast new mexico to the denver city hub and has a capacity of more than 350 million cubic feet per day. tariffs on the bravo pipeline are not regulated. occidental petroleum (81%) and xto energy (6%) hold the remaining ownership interests in the bravo pipeline. in addition, kmco 2 owns approximately 98% of the canyon reef carriers pipeline and approximately 69% of the pecos pipeline. the canyon reef carriers pipeline extends 139 miles from mccamey, texas, to the sacroc unit in the permian basin. the pipeline has a capacity of approximately 270 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units. the pecos pipeline is a 25-mile pipeline that runs from mccamey to iraan, texas. it has a capacity of approximately 120 million cubic feet per day and makes deliveries to the yates unit. the tariffs charged on the canyon reef carriers and pecos pipelines are not regulated. the principal market for transportation on kmco 2 's carbon dioxide pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using carbon dioxide for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. crude oil pipeline kmco 2 owns the kinder morgan wink pipeline, a 450-mile texas intrastate crude oil pipeline system consisting of three mainline sections, two gathering systems and numerous truck delivery stations. the pipeline allows kmco 2 to better manage crude oil deliveries from its oil field interests in west texas. kmco 2 has entered into a long-term throughput agreement with western refining company, l.p. to transport crude oil into western's 120,000 barrel per day refinery located in el paso, texas. the throughput agreement expires in 2034. the 20-inch diameter pipeline segment that runs from wink to el paso, texas has a total capacity of 130,000 barrels of crude oil per day with the use of drag reduction agent (dra), and it transported approximately 119,000 barrels of oil per day in 2012. the kinder morgan wink pipeline is regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission. competition kmco 2 's primary competitors for the sale of carbon dioxide include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain carbon dioxide resources, and oxyusa, inc, which controls waste carbon dioxide extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. kmco 2 's ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other carbon dioxide pipelines. kmco 2 also competes with 26 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of carbon dioxide to the denver city, texas market area. terminals kmp kmp's terminals segment includes the operations of its petroleum, chemical and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines kmp segment) and all of its coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. combined, the segment is composed of approximately 113 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 35 rail transloading and materials handling facilities. kmp's terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. kmp believes the location of its facilities and its ability to provide flexibility to customers helps keep customers and provides kmp opportunities for expansion. kmp often classifies its terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or bulk material products. liquids terminals kmps liquids terminals operations primarily store refined petroleum products, petrochemicals, ethanol, industrial chemicals and vegetable oil products in aboveground storage tanks and transfer products to and from pipelines, vessels, tank trucks, tank barges, and tank railcars. combined, kmp's approximately 27 liquids terminals facilities possess liquids storage capacity of approximately 60.1 million barrels, and in 2012, these terminals handled approximately 630 million barrels of liquids products, including petroleum products, ethanol and chemicals. bulk terminals kmps bulk terminal operations primarily involve dry-bulk material handling services. kmp also provides conveyor manufacturing and installation, engineering and design services, and in-plant services covering material handling, conveying, maintenance and repair, truck-railcar-marine transloading, railcar switching and miscellaneous marine services. kmp owns or operates approximately 83 dry-bulk terminals in the u.s. and canada, and combined, its dry-bulk and material transloading facilities (described below) handled approximately 97 million tons of coal, petroleum coke, fertilizers, steel, ores and other dry-bulk materials in 2012. materials services (rail transloading) kmp's materials services operations include rail or truck transloading shipments from one medium of transportation to another conducted at approximately 35 owned and non-owned facilities. the burlington northern santa fe, csx, norfolk southern, union pacific, kansas city southern and a&amp;w railroads provide rail service for these terminal facilities. approximately 50% of the products handled are liquids, including an entire spectrum of liquid chemicals, and the rest are dry-bulk products. many of the facilities are equipped for bi-modal operation (rail-to-truck, and truck-to-rail) or connect via pipeline to storage facilities. several facilities provide railcar storage services. kmp also designs and builds transloading facilities, performs inventory management services, and provides value-added services such as blending, heating and sparging. effective march, 31 2013, transflo, a wholly owned subsidiary of csx, will terminate their contract with our materials handling wholly-owned subsidiary, kinder morgan materials services (kmms). this contract covered 25 terminals located on the csx railroad throughout the southeastern section of the u.s. kmms performed transloading services at the 25 terminals, which included rail-to-truck and truck-to-rail transloading of bulk and liquid products. competition kmp is one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in the u.s, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. its liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical and pipeline companies. its bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminal services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. kmp's rail transloading (material services) operations compete with a variety of single- or multi-site transload, warehouse and terminal operators across the u.s. its ethanol rail transload operations compete with a variety of ethanol handling terminal sites across the u.s., many offering waterborne service, truck loading, and unit train capability serviced by class 1 rail carriers. 27 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) kinder morgan canada kmp kmp's kinder morgan canada business segment includes trans mountain pipeline system, ownership of a one-third interest in the express pipeline system, and the 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. the weighted average remaining life of the shipping contracts on these pipeline systems was approximately two years as of december 31, 2012. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. trans mountain's pipeline is 715 miles in length. kmp also owns a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300,000 barrels per day when heavy crude represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude percentage), to 400,000 barrels per day with no heavy crude. trans mountain is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. as the recently announced expansion proposal demonstrates, we believe these facilities provide the opportunity to execute on capacity expansions to the west coast, as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in 2012, trans mountain delivered an average of 291,000 barrels per day. the crude oil and refined petroleum products transported through trans mountain's pipeline system originates in alberta and british columbia. the refined and partially refined petroleum products transported to kamloops, british columbia and vancouver originates from oil refineries located in edmonton. petroleum products delivered through trans mountain's pipeline system are used in markets in british columbia, washington state and elsewhere offshore. trans mountain also operates a 5.3 mile spur line from its sumas pump station to the u.s. - canada international border where it connects with our approximate 63-mile, 16-inch to 20-inch diameter puget sound pipeline system. the puget sound pipeline system in the state of washington has a sustainable throughput capacity of approximately 135,000 barrels per day when heavy crude represents approximately 25% of throughput, and it connects to four refineries located in northwestern washington state. the volumes of crude oil shipped to the state of washington fluctuate in response to the price levels of canadian crude oil in relation to crude oil produced in alaska and other offshore sources. in february 2013, trans mountain completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement effective for the period beginning january 1, 2013 and ending december 31, 2015. trans mountain anticipates neb approval in the second quarter of 2013. express system kmp owns a one-third ownership interest in the express pipeline system. kmp operates the express pipeline system and accounts for its one-third investment under the equity method of accounting. the express pipeline system is a batch-mode, common-carrier, crude oil pipeline system comprised of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline, collectively referred to in this report as the express pipeline system. the approximate 1,700-mile integrated oil transportation pipeline connects canadian and u.s. producers to refineries located in the u.s. rocky mountain and midwest regions. the express pipeline is a 780-mile, 24-inch diameter pipeline that begins at the crude oil pipeline terminal at hardisty, alberta and terminates at the casper, wyoming facilities of the platte pipeline. the express pipeline has a design capacity of 280,000 barrels per day. receipts at hardisty averaged 191,700 barrels per day in 2012. the platte pipeline is a 926-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline that runs from the crude oil pipeline terminal at casper, wyoming to refineries and interconnecting pipelines in the wood river, illinois area. the platte pipeline has a current capacity of approximately 150,000 barrels per day downstream of casper, wyoming and approximately 140,000 barrels per day downstream of guernsey, wyoming. platte deliveries averaged 148,000 barrels per day in 2012. on december 11, 2012, kmp announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell its interests in the express pipeline system to spectra. this sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2013. jet fuel pipeline system kmp also owns and operates the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline 28 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15,000 barrels. competition trans mountain and the express pipeline system are each one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and each competes against other pipeline providers. other during 2012, our other segment activities include those operations that were acquired from ep on may 25, 2012 and are primarily related to several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities. these contracts obligate ep to sell natural gas to these plants and have various expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2028. in 2010, this segment primarily consisted of our power facility which was sold on october 22, 2010. this segment also included an interest in the bolivia to brazil pipeline, which we sold for $88 million on january 18, 2013. major customers our total operating revenues are derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 -kmp business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 -kmp business segments in 2012, 2011 and 2010 accounted for 26%, 42% and 46%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of its natural gas purchases to its natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on kmp's pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified 29 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of kmp's crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of canada's national energy board, referred to in this report as the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. trans mountain pipeline. trans mountain previously had a one-year toll settlement with shippers that expired on december 31, 2012. in february 2013, trans mountain completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement to be effective for 2013. trans mountain anticipates approval from the neb in the econd quarter of 2013. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. see -interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations. express pipeline. the canadian segment of the express pipeline is regulated by the neb as a group 2 pipeline, which results in rates and terms of service being regulated on a complaint basis only. express committed contract rates are subject to a 2% inflation adjustment april 1 of each year. the u.s. segment of the express pipeline and the platte pipeline are regulated by the ferc. see -interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations. additionally, movements on the platte pipeline within the state of wyoming are regulated by the wyoming public service commission, which regulates the tariffs and terms of service of public utilities that operate in the state of wyoming. the wyoming public service commission standards applicable to rates are similar to those of the ferc and the neb. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we could charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates to meet competition, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to offer negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of a fixed rate during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, and while rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, the terms and conditions of pipeline transportation and storage services are not generally negotiable. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, through the mid-1990's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to create a more competitive environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; and order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage). the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information; (iv) independent functioning; (v) transparency; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the north american energy standards board business practice standards. the ferc also promulgates certain standards of conduct that apply uniformly to interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities. in light of the changing structure of the energy industry, these standards of conduct govern employee relationships-using a functional approach-to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis. pursuant to the ferc's standards of conduct, a 30 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) natural gas transmission provider is prohibited from disclosing to a marketing function employee non-public information about the transmission system or a transmission customer. additionally, no-conduit provisions prohibit a transmission function provider from disclosing non-public information to marketing function employees by using a third party conduit. rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. california public utilities commission rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of kmp's pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the california public utilities commission, referred to in this report as the cpuc, under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by kmp with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to kmp's ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. certain of the pacific operations' pipeline rates have been, and continue to be, subject to complaints with the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. texas railroad commission rate regulation the intrastate operations of our natural gas and crude oil pipelines in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the texas railroad commission. the texas railroad commission has the authority to regulate our transportation rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulating commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulating commission (the commission) on september 30, 2002 and it defines the general and directional conditions for the company to carry out the activity and provide the natural gas transportation service. this permit has a term of 30 years. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitations (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the project presented to the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by the u.s. department of transportation pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration, referred to as phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on the costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to 31 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the u.s. department of transportation rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the president signed into law new pipeline safety legislation in january 2012, the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules, among other matters, and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few years. phmsa is also currently considering changes to its regulations. phmsa recently issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine the pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of such pressures, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records or verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the federal occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other comparable federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 32 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multiparty sites where the u.s. environmental protection agency, referred to in this report as the u.s. epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multiparty sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $397 million as of december 31, 2012. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $397 million to approximately $529 million , and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the u.s. epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, also known as cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the u.s. epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. we believe that the operations of our pipelines, storage facilities and terminals are in substantial compliance with such statutes. the u.s. epa adopted new regulations under the clean air act that took effect in early 2011 and that establish requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into state waters or waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release. 33 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. the epa published in december 2009 its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to human health and the environment. pursuant to this endangerment finding and other rulemakings and interpretations, epa concluded that stationary sources would become subject to federal permitting requirements under the clean air act in starting in 2011. in 2010, the epa issued a final rule, known as the tailoring rule, that defined regulatory emissions thresholds at which certain new and modified stationary sources would become subject to permitting and other requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the clean air act. some of our facilities emit greenhouse gases in excess of the tailoring rule's thresholds and have been required to obtain, and must continue to comply with, a title v permit for greenhouse gas emissions. in 2011, the epa implemented permitting for new and/or modified sources of greenhouse gas emissions through the existing psd permitting program. the epa has indicated in rulemakings that it may reduce the current tailoring rule regulatory thresholds for greenhouse gases, making additional sources subject to psd permitting requirements, but has declined to do so at this time. permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions may also trigger permitting requirements for emissions of other regulated air pollutants as well. additional direct regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in our industry may be implemented under other clean air act programs, including the new source performance standards, or nsps, program. the epa has already proposed to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain electric generating units under the nsps program. a final regulation is expected in 2013. while these proposed nsps regulations for electric generating units would not directly apply to our operations, the epa may propose a greenhouse gas nsps for additional source categories. in addition, in 2009 the epa published a final rule requiring that specified large greenhouse gas emissions sources annually report the greenhouse gas emissions for the preceding year in the u.s., beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. in 2010, the epa published a final rule expanding its existing greenhouse gas emissions reporting rule for petroleum and natural gas facilities, including natural gas transmission compression facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. the rule, which went into effect in december 2010, requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by regulated facilities to the epa by september 2012 for emissions during 2011 and annually thereafter. some of our facilities are required to report under this rule, and operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirements. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. depending on the particular program, we could be required to purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our and our subsidiaries operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and 34 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or u.s. epa regulatory initiatives could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within the co 2 -kmp business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although the magnitude and direction of these impacts cannot now be predicted, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. epa regulation of internal combustion engines internal combustion engines used in our operations are also subject to epa regulation under the clean air act. the epa published new regulations on emissions of hazardous air pollutants from reciprocating internal combustion engines on august 20, 2010. on june 7, 2012, the epa proposed amendments to these regulations which are expected to be finalized in the near future. the epa also revised the new source performance standards for stationary compression ignition and spark ignition internal combustion engines on june 28, 2011 and has proposed minor amendments, included in the june 7, 2012 proposed rule. compliance with these new regulations may require significant capital expenditures for physical modifications and may require operational changes as well. we are not able to estimate such increased costs, however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant for us. recent epa rules regarding oil and natural gas air emissions in addition, on april 17, 2012, the epa approved final rules that establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production, pipelines and processing operations. these rules were published in the federal register on august 16, 2012 and became effective on october 15, 2012. for new or reworked hydraulically fractured gas wells, the rules require the control of emissions through flaring or reduced emission (or green ) completions until 2015, when the rules require the use of green completions. the rules also establish specific new requirements, effective in 2012, for emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, gas processing plants and certain other equipment. these rules may therefore require a number of modifications to our and our customers' operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. in october 2012, several challenges to epa's rules were filed by various parties, including environmental groups and industry associations. depending on the outcome of such proceedings, the rules may be modified or rescinded or epa may issue new rules, the costs of compliance with any modified or newly issued rules cannot be predicted. additionally, on december 11, 2012, seven states submitted a notice of intent to sue the epa to compel the agency to make a determination as to whether standards of performance limiting methane emissions from oil and gas sources are appropriate, and, if so, to promulgate performance standards for methane emissions from the oil and gas sector, which was not addressed in the epa rule that became effective on october 15, 2012. the notice of intent also requested epa issue emission guidelines for the control of methane emissions from existing oil and gas sources. depending on whether rules are promulgated and the applicability and restrictions in any promulgated rule, compliance with such rules could result in additional costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs. while we are not able at this time to estimate such additional costs, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant for us. compliance with such rules may also make it more difficult for us and our customers to operate, thereby reducing the volume of natural gas transported through our pipelines, which may adversely affect our business. department of homeland security in section 550 of the homeland security appropriations act of 2007, the u.s. congress gave the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. pursuant to its congressional mandate, on april 9, 2007, the dhs promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to 35 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k items 1 and 2. business and properties . (continued) which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 10,685 full-time people at december 31, 2012, including approximately 818 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2013 and 2016. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units (subsidiaries or limited partnerships). the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries and limited partnerships. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries and limited partnerships pursuant to existing expense allocation procedures. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. these processes are in accordance with limited partnership agreements, and the delegation of control agreement among kinder morgan g.p., inc., kmr, kmp and others, and kmr's limited liability company. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to our business we are dependent on cash distributions received from kmp and epb. for 2012, distributions from kmp and epb represented approximately 81% of the sum of total cash generated by (i) distributions payable to us by our mlps (on a declared basis) and (ii) distributable cash generated by assets we own and our share of cash generated by our joint venture investments. a decline in kmp's and/or epb's revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash kmp and epb can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders, which could be material. new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations. our pipelines and storage facilities are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and 36 gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. for example, the department of homeland security appropriation act of 2007 required the issuance of regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present high levels of security risk. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-regulation. the ferc, the cpuc or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results can be negatively impacted. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may initiate investigations to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, to the rates we charge on kmp's, epb's and our other pipelines. any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and carbon dioxide transportation activities-such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems-that could result in substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks may result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. primarily, through our regulated pipeline subsidiaries, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines for the u.s. dot and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of the compliance costs are pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the u.s. dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated 37 capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances was not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. in addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities in restricted areas, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, 38 financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the u.s. epa began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010 from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like our mcelmo dome carbon dioxide field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our natural gas pipelines segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact kmp's and epb's revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on their natural gas pipelines. the natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of natural gas from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. we may face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers natural gas, crude oil, or petroleum products into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business. kmp, epb and our other pipelines regularly expand their assets and construct new build projects. they also conduct what are referred to as open seasons to evaluate the potential customer interest for new construction projects. a variety of factors outside of their control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. 39 we must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. we obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land for a period of time. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. whether kmp, epb or our other pipelines have the power of eminent domain for their pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas or carbon dioxide-and the laws of the particular state. our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our subsidiaries' business if they were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which pipelines are located. kmp's and epb's acquisition strategies and expansion programs require access to new capital. limitations on their access to capital would impair our ability to grow. consistent with the terms of kmp's and epb's partnership agreements, kmp and epb distribute most of the cash generated by their operations. as a result, they have relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisition and growth capital expenditures. however, to the extent our limited partnerships are unable to continue to finance growth externally; their cash distribution policy will significantly impair their ability to grow. kmp and/or epb may need new capital to finance these activities. limitations on access to capital, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, will impair their ability to execute this strategy. kmp's and epb's growth strategies may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations and they may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions. part of kmp's and epb's business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities. if they do not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, anticipated operating advantages and cost savings may not occur. the integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results. our limited partnerships may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon their ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, cost savings and other size-related benefits they expected may not be achieved, which could harm their financial condition and results of operations. our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $32 billion of consolidated debt (including kmp and epb, but excluding debt fair value adjustments). this level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions which may include reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 40 our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2012, approximately $11 billion (35%) of our approximately $32 billion consolidated debt (including kmp and epb, but excluding debt fair value adjustment) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-interest rate risk. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. there is the potential for a change of control of the general partners of kmp and epb if we default on debt . we own all of the common equity of the general partners of kmp and epb. if we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of the general partners of kmp and epb through their control of us. a change of control of the general partners of kmp and epb could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from kmp and epb, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for dividends to our stockholders. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. also, continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt instruments, as well as the market value of kmp's and epb's common units. distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide. some of our customers may experience severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. in addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. terrorist attacks or cyber security events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business . the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets and systems might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber security events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems or 41 operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. the occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pipeline business is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines. without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas. in addition, with respect to the co 2 -kmp business segment, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas. each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. throughput on kmp's and/or epb's pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions. over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand. the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products. the future success of kmp's oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within the co 2 -kmp business segment will decline. kmp may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if kmp does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. kmp's development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. 42 the volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on the co 2 -kmp segment. the revenues, profitability and future growth of the co 2 -kmp business segment and the carrying value of its oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices. for 2013, kmp estimates that every $1 change in the average west texas intermediate crude oil price per barrel would impact the co 2 -kmp segment's cash flows by approximately $6 million. prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond kmp's control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in kmp's revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of kmp's proved reserves. in the event prices fall substantially, kmp may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. the recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the u.s. congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the commodities futures trading commission, referred to as the cftc, and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. while the cftc's rule promulgated pursuant to the dodd-frank act has been vacated by a u.s. district court and is on appeal, the cftc has taken the position that the act also requires the cftc to institute broad new aggregate position limits for over-the-counter swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. the dodd-frank act and any new regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives. 43 if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the kinder morgan canada-kmp segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of the kinder morgan canada-kmp business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the u.s. and canada. volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids will have a negative impact on the results of the co 2 -kmp business segment. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. kmp's and epb's tax treatment depends on their status as partnerships for u.s. federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if kmp and/or epb were treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes or if they were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then cash available for distribution to their partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. we own the general partner interests in both kmp and epb and approximately 11% and 41% of the limited partner interests of kmp and of epb, respectively. the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in kmp and epb depends largely on their treatment as partnerships for u.s. federal income tax purposes. neither kmp nor epb has requested nor plans to request a ruling from the irs on this or any other tax matter. despite the fact that kmp and epb are organized as limited partnerships under delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for partnerships such as kmp or epb to be treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although neither kmp nor epb believes, based on its current operations, that it is or will be so treated, the irs could disagree with the positions kmp or epb takes or a change in kmp's or epb's business (or a change in current law) could cause them to be treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject them to taxation as an entity. if they were treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes, they would pay u.s. federal income tax on taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates. distributions by kmp and epb to their partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of their current and accumulated earnings and profits) and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to their partners, including us. because tax would be imposed on kmp and epb as corporations, their after-tax cash 44 available for distribution would be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the dividends we could pay and in the value of our common stock. the present u.s. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including kmp and epb, or an investment in them may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. moreover, from time to time, members of the u.s. congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing u.s. federal income tax laws that could affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. in addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. any state income taxes imposed upon kmp or epb as entities would reduce their cash available to be distributed to us. any modification to the u.s. federal income or state tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may be applied retroactively and could negatively impact the value of our investment in kmp and epb. kmp's and epb's partnership agreements provide that if a law is enacted that subjects them to corporate taxation or otherwise subjects them to entity-level taxation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amounts and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact. if kmp's or epb's unitholders remove their respective general partner, we would lose our general partner interest in either kmp or epb, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage them. we own the general partners of kmp and epb and with respect to kmp, all of the voting shares of kmr, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of kmp, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions. kmp's and epb's partnership agreements, however, give their respective unitholders the right to remove their general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2 3% of the respective partnership's outstanding units (including the common units, class b units and i-units, as applicable) voting as a single class vote for such removal; (ii) the holders of kmp's and epb's outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote, respectively; and (iii) kmp and/ or epb receives opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause either kmp or epb or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. if kmp's or epb's unitholders removed their respective general partner, the general partner would lose its ability to manage kmp or epb, and with respect to kmp, the delegation of authority to kmr by kmp's general partner would terminate at the same time. the general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. while the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of kmp's and epb's partnership agreements to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest. if in the future kmr and the general partner cease to manage and control kmp, with respect to kmp and epb's general partner ceases to manage and control epb either limited partnership may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. if our subsidiaries, kmr and kinder morgan g.p., inc., which is the general partner of kmp, cease to manage and control kmp, or, el paso pipeline gp, l.l.c. ceases to manage and control epb, either or both kmp and epb may be deemed to be investment companies under the investment company act of 1940. in that case, kmp and/or epb would either have to register as an investment company under the investment company act, obtain exemptive relief from the sec or modify their organizational structure or contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company. registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer, richard d. kinder, who is also one of our founders. along with the other members of our senior 45 management, mr. kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. risks related to the ownership of our common stock the price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments. the market price of the common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of kmp and epb, other companies comparable to us or kmp and epb or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general u.s. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts' interest in following our company. non-u.s. holders of our common stock may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock. if we are or have been a 'u.s. real property holding corporation'' within the meaning of the code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-u.s. holder, or (ii) such holder's holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is 'regularly traded,'' as defined by applicable u.s. treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-u.s. holder may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above. we believe we are, or may become, a u.s. real property holding corporation. risks related to our dividend policy holders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all. our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes. however, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws and other factors. dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the sponsor investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future. the terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances. a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. the general partners of kmp and epb, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support kmp and epb that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. 46 we utilize kmp and epb as our vehicles for growth. we have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest. as the owner of the general partner of kmp, and now epb, we may take steps we judge beneficial to kmp's and epb's growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends. the board of directors of the general partner of kmp or epb may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per the respective partnership unit. for example, kmp's general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture and has agreed to waive its paid incentive distributions of $27 million and $4 million for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively, on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's subsequent acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture. in addition, in connection with kmp's proposed acquisition of copano, kmp's general partner has agreed to waive incentive distributions in 2013 in an amount dependent on the time of closing, $120 million in both 2014 and 2015, $110 million in 2016 and annual amounts thereafter decreasing by $5 million per year from this level. our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the limited partnership level or impair our financial flexibility. if we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the limited partnership level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. in addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the limited partnership level, including through acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. we cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. if we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends. all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. in addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as our limited partnerships, are not wholly owned by us. when funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us. a number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future. in addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization. the board of directors of kmr, which is the delegate of kmp's general partner, and epb's general partner have broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of their businesses. the establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions to us and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level. further, the calculation of kmp's and epb's available cash for distribution is discretionary and subject to the approval of the board of directors of kmr or epb's general partner, respectively taking into consideration their constituent agreements. similarly, while the constituent agreements of ngpl provide that it is the intention of ngpl to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of ngpl and do not control it. the same is true for joint ventures in which our limited partnerships own an interest. the distributions we receive from kmp are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest. the distributions we receive are not as large if kmp distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if kmp's general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock. if we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. our ability to pay dividends is restricted by delaware law. 47 under the dgcl, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the dgcl, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the dgcl. if, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders. risks related to conflicts of interest kmp, epb and their subsidiaries may compete with us. neither of kmp, epb or any of their subsidiaries or entities in which they own an interest is restricted from competing with us. kmr manages kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner) and epb's general partner manages epb, in what they consider to be the best interests of their respective limited partner interests. kmp, epb and their subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. among other things, we and our limited partnerships have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the limited partnership level only if kmp and epb elect not to pursue the opportunity. many of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr and epb, or entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future. many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, who is also a director or officer of ours, in making decisions in such person's capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accordance with his or her fiduciary duties to us. however, in making decisions in such person's capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment. further, the organizational documents of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us. in addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. there could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 91 energy commodity market risk 91 interest rate risk 92 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we take steps to hedge, or limit our exposure to, these risks in order to maintain a more stable and predictable earnings stream. stated another way, we execute a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we or kmp use include energy products traded on the new york mercantile exchange and over-the-counter markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. as part of the ep acquisition (see note 3 acquisitions and divestiture kmi acquisition of el paso corporation ), we acquired long-term natural gas and power forward and swap contracts. prior to the acquisition, ep had entered into offsetting positions that eliminated the price risks associated with its power contracts and substantially offset the fixed price exposure related to its natural gas supply contracts. none of these derivatives are designated as accounting hedges. fundamentally, our hedging strategy involves taking a simultaneous position in the futures market that is equal and opposite to our position, or anticipated position, in the cash market (or physical product) in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, kmp often enters into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of its crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of its natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby directly offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. a hedge is successful when gains or losses in the cash market are neutralized by losses or gains in the futures transaction. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's ratings services): credit rating j. aron &amp; company / goldman sachs a- bank of america / merrill lynch a- deutsche bank a+ morgan stanley a- j.p. morgan a as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us and our subsidiaries to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet distribution targets. we categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. cash flow hedges are defined as hedges made with the intention of decreasing the variability in cash flows related to future transactions, as opposed to the value of an asset, liability or firm commitment, and we are allowed special hedge accounting treatment for such derivative contracts. 91 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) in accounting for cash flow hedges, gains and losses on the derivative contracts are reported in other comprehensive income, outside net income reported in our consolidated statements of income, but only to the extent that the gains and losses from the change in value of the derivative contracts can later offset the loss or gain from the change in value of the hedged future cash flows during the period in which the hedged cash flows affect net income. that is, for cash flow hedges, all effective components of the derivative contracts' gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, pending occurrence of the expected transaction. other comprehensive income consists of those financial items that are included within accumulated other comprehensive loss in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets but not included in our net income (portions attributable to our noncontrolling interests are included within noncontrolling interests and are not included in our net income). thus, in highly effective cash flow hedges, where there is no ineffectiveness, other comprehensive income changes by exactly as much as the derivative contracts and there is no impact on earnings until the expected transaction occurs. all remaining gains and losses on the derivative contracts (the ineffective portion) are included in current net income. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative contracts is the difference between the gain or loss from the change in value of the derivative contract and the effective portion of that gain or loss. in addition, when the hedged forecasted transaction does take place and affects earnings, the effective part of the hedge is also recognized in the income statement, and the earlier recognized effective amounts are removed from accumulated other comprehensive loss (and noncontrolling interests ) and are transferred to the income statement as well, effectively offsetting the changes in cash flows stemming from the hedged risk. if the forecasted transaction results in an asset or liability, amounts should be reclassified into earnings when the asset or liability affects earnings through cost of sales, depreciation, interest expense, etc. for more information on our other comprehensive income and our accumulated other comprehensive loss see notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, crude oil and power derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. as of both december 31, 2012 and 2011, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity natural gas prices would affect the estimated fair value of natural gas derivatives, held by us and kmp, by $7 million and $4 million, respectively. as of both december 31, 2012 and 2011, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity crude oil prices would affect the estimated fair value of crude oil derivatives, held by kmp, by $196 million and $194 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2012, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity electricity prices would affect the estimated fair value of our power derivatives by $2 million. as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the natural gas, crude oil and power portfolios of derivative contracts (including commodity futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps) assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. for more information on our energy commodity risk management activities, see note 13 to our consolidated statements included elsewhere in this report. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt until such debt is required to be refinanced. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, the carrying values of the fixed rate debt (including the debt fair value adjustments) included in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets were $29,554 million and $16,100 million, respectively. these 92 kinder morgan, inc. form 10-k item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (continued) amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, fair values of $31,882 million and $16,462 million, respectively. fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flow discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt for 2012 and 2011, would result in changes of approximately $1,048 million and $575 million, respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. the carrying value of the variable rate debt (which approximates the fair value), excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements (discussed following), was $4,847 million and $1,155 million as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. as of december 31, 2012, kmi and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts of $725.0 million and $5,525 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2011, kmi and kmp were party to interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts of $725.0 million and $5,325 million, respectively. an interest rate swap agreement is a contractual agreement entered into between two counterparties under which each agrees to make periodic interest payments to the other for an agreed period of time based upon a predetermined amount of principal, which is called the notional principal amount. normally at each payment or settlement date, the party who owes more pays the net amount; so at any given settlement date only one party actually makes a payment. the principal amount is notional because there is no need to exchange actual amounts of principal. a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 49 basis points in 2012 and approximately 44 basis points in 2011) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $55 million and $32 million, respectively, in our 2012 and 2011 annual pre-tax earnings. as of december 31, 2012, epb had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding. in september 2012, epb terminated its existing variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements having a notional principal amount of $ 137 million and paid $ 14 million for the early termination of these swap agreements. interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of transforming a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time through our subsidiaries, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. in general, kmp attempts to maintain an overall target mix of approximately 50% fixed rate debt and 50% of variable rate debt, and typically kmi, excluding kmp, targets well below that level for variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 42% of kmi's debt, excluding that of kmp and epb, is variable rate debt. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.risk factors 41 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we (primarily through kmp and epb) regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, if applicable, and approval of the parties' respective boards of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we own and manage a diversified portfolio of energy transportation and storage assets. our operations are conducted through the following reportable business segments: natural gas pipelines for all periods presented in our financial statements this segment consists of approximately 68,000 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines and gathering lines, plus natural gas storage, treating and processing facilities, through which natural gas is gathered, transported, stored, treated, processed and sold and other equity interests. co2 kmp which produces, markets and transports, through approximately 1,500 miles of pipelines, co2 to oil fields that use co2 to increase production of oil; owns interests in and/or operate four primary oil fields in west texas; and owns and operates a 450-mile crude oil pipeline system in west texas; products pipelines kmp which consists of approximately 9,000 miles of refined petroleum products and crude oil and condensate pipelines that deliver refined petroleum products (gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel), ngl, crude oil, condensate and bio-fuels to various markets; plus approximately 62 associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix processing facilities serving customers across the u.s.; terminals kmp which consists of approximately 122 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 10 rail transloading and materials handling facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada, which together transload, store and deliver a wide variety of bulk, petroleum, petrochemical and other liquids products for customers across the u.s. and canada kinder morgan canada kmp which transports crude oil and refined petroleum products through approximately 800 miles of pipelines from alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia and the state of washington; plus five associated product terminal facilities; and other which primarily includes several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities. these contracts obligate ep to sell natural gas to these plants and have various expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2028. this segment also included an interest in the bolivia to brazil pipeline, which we sold for $88 million on january 18, 2013. 17 natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our non-ferc regulated assets are contained in kmp's midstream group. our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) kmp's assets - approximately 40,000 miles of natural gas pipelines; and (ii) epb's assets - approximately 13,000 miles of natural gas pipelines; and (iii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 15,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, that are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. kmp's transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest and northeast, as well as major consumer markets. epb's transportation network provides access to the major gas supply areas and consumer markets in the rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. epb's lng storage and regasification terminal also serves natural gas supply areas in the southeast. kmp kmp midstream group texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group the texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily along the texas gulf coast, consists of the following four natural gas pipeline systems: (i) kinder morgan texas pipeline; (ii) kinder morgan tejas pipeline; (iii) mier-monterrey mexico pipeline; and (iv) kinder morgan north texas pipeline. the two largest systems in the group are kinder morgan texas pipeline and the kinder morgan tejas pipeline. these pipelines essentially operate as a single pipeline system, providing customers and suppliers with improved flexibility and reliability. the combined system includes approximately 5,763 miles of intrastate natural gas pipelines with a peak transport and sales capacity of approximately 6 bcf/d of natural gas and approximately 118 billion cubic feet of on-system natural gas storage capacity. in addition, the combined system (i) has facilities to both treat approximately 180 mmcf/d of natural gas for co 2 and hydrogen sulfide removal, and to process approximately 85 mmcf/d of natural gas for liquids extraction; and (ii) holds contractual rights to process natural gas at certain third party facilities. transport volumes in 2013 averaged 1,743 bbtu/d. the mier-monterrey pipeline consists of a 95-mile natural gas pipeline that stretches from the international border between the u.s. and mexico in starr county, texas, to monterrey, mexico and can transport up to 425 mmcf/d, though this capacity is being expanded to 640 mmcf/d. the pipeline connects to the pemex natural gas transportation system and serves a 1,000-megawatt power plant complex. kmp has entered into long-term contracts which have subscribed for substantially all of the pipeline's capacity. transport volumes in 2013 averaged 379 bbtu/d. the kinder morgan north texas pipeline consists of an 82-mile pipeline that transports natural gas from an interconnect with the facilities of ngpl (a 20%-owned equity investee of kmi) in lamar county, texas to a 1,750-megawatt electricity generating facility located in forney, texas, 15 miles east of dallas, texas and to a 1,000-megawatt electricity generating facility located near paris, texas. it has the capacity to transport 325 mmcf/d of natural gas and is fully subscribed under a long-term contract that expires in 2032. the system is bi-directional, permitting deliveries of additional supply from the barnett shale area to ngpl's pipeline as well as power plants in the area. transport volumes in 2013 averaged 262 bbtu/d. texas is one of the largest natural gas consuming states in the country. the natural gas demand profile in kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group's market area is primarily composed of industrial (including on-site cogeneration facilities), merchant and utility power, and local natural gas distribution consumption. the industrial demand is primarily a year-round load. merchant and utility power demand peaks in the summer months and is complemented by local natural gas distribution demand that peaks in the winter months. collectively, kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline system primarily serves the texas gulf coast by selling, transporting, processing and treating natural gas from multiple supply sources to serve the houston/beaumont/port arthur/austin industrial markets, local natural gas distribution utilities, electric utilities and merchant power generation markets. it serves as a buyer and seller of natural gas, as well as a transporter of natural gas. the purchases and sales of natural gas are primarily priced with reference to market prices in the consuming region of the system. the difference between the purchase and sale prices is the rough equivalent of a transportation fee and fuel 18 costs. generally, kmp purchases natural gas directly from producers with reserves connected to its intrastate natural gas system in south texas, east texas, west texas, and along the texas gulf coast. in addition, kmp also purchase gas at interconnects with third-party interstate and intrastate pipelines. while the intrastate group does not produce gas, it does maintain an active well connection program in order to offset natural declines in production along its system and to secure supplies for additional demand in its market area. kmp's intrastate system is interconnected with both lng import terminals located on the texas gulf coast. the intrastate group also has access to markets within and outside of texas through interconnections with numerous interstate natural gas pipelines. kinder morgan treating l.p. kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan treating, l.p., owns and operates (or leases to producers for operation) treating plants that remove impurities (such as co 2 and hydrogen sulfide) and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas before it is delivered into gathering systems and transmission pipelines to ensure that it meets pipeline quality specifications. additionally, its subsidiary km treating production llc designs, constructs and sells custom and stock natural gas treating plants and condensate stabilizers. kmp's rental fleet of treating assets includes approximately 211 natural gas amine-treating plants, approximately 20 hydrocarbon dew point control plants, and approximately 186 mechanical refrigeration units that are used to remove impurities and hydrocarbon liquids from natural gas streams prior to entering transmission pipelines. kinderhawk field services llc kinderhawk gathers and treats natural gas in the haynesville and bossier shale gas formations located in northwest louisiana. its assets currently consist of approximately 480 miles of natural gas gathering pipeline currently in service and natural gas amine treating plants having a current capacity of approximately 2,600 gallons per minute (gpm). kinderhawk owns life of lease dedications to gather and treat substantially all of bhp billiton (bhp) operated haynesville and bossier shale gas production at agreed upon rates, as well as minimum volume commitments for a five-year term that expires in may 2015. kinderhawk also holds additional third-party gas gathering and treating commitments. the system is designed to have approximately 2.0 bcf/d of throughput capacity, however, due primarily to reduced drilling activities, the 2013 average gathering volume was 668 bbtu/d of natural gas. bhp billiton petroleum (eagle ford gathering) llc formerly known as eaglehawk field services llc and currently referred to as eaglehawk in this document, provides natural gas and condensate gathering, treating, condensate stabilization and transportation services in the eagle ford shale formation in south texas. kmp owns a 25% equity ownership in eaglehawk, and accounts for its 25% investment under the equity method of accounting. bhp operates eaglehawk and owns the remaining 75% ownership interest. eaglehawk owns two midstream gathering systems in and around bhp's hawkville and black hawk areas of the eagle ford shale formation and combined, its assets consist of natural gas gathering pipelines and condensate gathering lines. the system is designed to have approximately 700 mmcf/d of throughput capacity. in addition, eaglehawk has a life of lease dedication of certain of bhp's eagle ford shale reserves, and to a limited extent, contracts with other producers in the eagle ford shale formation to provide natural gas and condensate gathering, treating, condensate stabilization and transportation services. the 2013 average gathering volume was 131 bbtu/d of natural gas. red cedar gathering company kmp owns a 49% equity interest in red cedar, a joint venture organized in august 1994. red cedar owns and operates natural gas gathering, compression and treating facilities in the ignacio blanco field in la plata county, colorado. the remaining 51% interest in red cedar is owned by the southern ute indian tribe. red cedar's natural gas gathering system currently consists of approximately 755 miles of gathering pipeline connecting more than 900 producing wells, 133,400 horsepower of compression at 20 field compressor stations and three co 2 treating plants. the 2013 average gathering volume was 270 bbtu/d of natural gas and the treating capacity is approximately 750 mmcf/d. 19 kinder morgan altamont llc and camino real gathering, l.l.c. effective march 1, 2013, as part of the march 2013 drop-down transaction, kmp acquired the remaining 50% equity ownership interest in the midstream assets that it did not already own. the midstream assets include kmp's subsidiaries kinder morgan altamont llc and camino real gathering company, l.l.c. these entities own and operate the altamont natural gas gathering, processing and treating assets located in the uinta basin in utah, and the camino real natural gas and oil gathering systems located in the eagle ford shale formation in south texas. the altamont system consists of over 650 miles of pipeline, over 516 well connections with producers, a natural gas processing plant with a design capacity of 80 mmcf/d, and a ngl fractionator with a design capacity of 5.6 mbbl/d. the camino real gathering system has the capacity to gather 150 mmcf/d of natural gas and 110 mbbl/d of crude oil. the 2013 average gathering volumes were 67 bbtu/d for kinder morgan altamont and 103 bbtu/d for camino real gathering. endeavor gathering llc kmp owns a 40% equity interest in endeavor gathering llc, which provides natural gas gathering service to gmx resources, inc., and others in the cotton valley sands and haynesville/bossier shale horizontal well developments located in east texas. gmx resources, inc. operates and owns the remaining 60% ownership interest in endeavor gathering llc. endeavor's gathering system consists of over 100 miles of gathering lines and 25,000 horsepower of compression. in 2013, average gathering volume was 28 bbtu/d of natural gas. the natural gas gathering system has takeaway capacity of approximately 115 mmcf/d. copano operations (including eagle ford gathering llc) the copano operations assets (including equity investments owned by copano) include natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation pipeline assets, natural gas processing and fractionation facilities and ngl pipelines. through the copano operations' natural gas pipelines, kmp gathers natural gas from wellheads or designated points near producing wells. kmp also treats and processes natural gas as needed to remove contaminants and extract mixed ngl, and it delivers the resulting residue gas to its own and third-party pipelines, local distribution companies, power generation facilities and industrial customers. kmp also sells extracted ngl as a mixture or as fractionated purity products, and it delivers them through its pipeline interconnects and truck loading facilities. kmp processes natural gas from both its own gathering systems and from third-party pipelines, and in some cases, it delivers natural gas and mixed ngl to other third parties who provide kmp with transportation, processing or fractionation services. kmp commonly divides its copano operations into four regions: south texas, north texas, oklahoma and rocky mountain. in 2013, gathering volumes averaged 1,694 bbtu/d and transport volumes averaged 26 bbtu/d. copano south texas region the copano south texas operations deliver a majority of the natural gas gathered on kmp's wholly owned gathering systems to kmp's houston central complex located in colorado county, texas. at the houston central complex, kmp provides treating, processing and ngl fractionation and transportation services, as needed. the plant and related facilities has approximately 1.1 bcf/d of processing capacity, consisting of 500 mmcf/d lean oil and 600 mmcf/d cryogenic processing facilities. a new 400 mmcf/d cryogenic processing train (or tower) is under construction, and when it is placed into service at the end of the second quarter of 2014, will largely replace capacity currently served by the less-efficient lean oil method of extracting valuable ngl. the houston central complex also includes a 1,725 gpm amine treating system, a 44 mbbl/d ngl fractionation facility and a truck rack to facilitate the transport of ngl. the gathering systems have access to the houston central, through both kmp's dewitt/karnes (dk) pipeline system (which extends from dewitt county and karnes county, texas), and its laredo-to-katy (lk) pipeline system (which extends along the texas gulf coast from south texas to houston). kmp's houston central complex straddles its lk pipeline system, which allows it to move natural gas from its pipeline systems in south texas and near the texas gulf coast to the houston central complex for processing and treating and then on to downstream markets. kmp also delivers gas from its south texas gathering systems to other third-party pipelines and processing plants. depending on the contractual arrangements, third-party service providers collect fees, retain a portion of the ngl, or retain a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the ngl and residue gas in exchange for their services. kmp provides midstream natural gas services to eagle ford shale producers through its wholly-owned subsidiary eagle ford gathering llc (eagle ford). eagle ford provides natural gas gathering, transportation and processing services to natural gas producers in the eagle ford shale gas formation in south texas. the eagle ford has approximately 190 miles of pipelines 20 with capacity to gather and has contracted processing capacity at houston central and third party plants to process over 585 mmcf/d. the south texas copano operations include pipelines which gather natural gas from counties to the north of houston, texas and take deliveries from several third-party pipelines. kmp then delivers or sells the natural gas gathered or transported on these systems to utilities and industrial customers. kmp also provides gas conditioning and processing services to natural gas producers in the woodbine and eaglebine shale gas formations, emerging rich resource plays located in east texas near its gathering systems. the south texas copano operations also include kmp's (i) 62.5% equity ownership interest in webb/duval gatherers, the sole owner of the webb/duval gas gathering system that provides natural gas gathering services in south texas; and (ii) 50% equity ownership interest in liberty pipeline group, llc, the sole owner of the liberty pipeline system which transports mixed ngl from kmp's houston central complex to the texas gulf coast. webb/duval gatherers is a general partnership that kmp operates. each partner has the right to use its pro rata share of pipeline capacity on this system, subject to applicable ratable take and common purchaser statutes. energy transfer partners, l.p. operates and owns the remaining 50% interest in the liberty pipeline system. copano north texas region the copano north texas region provides midstream natural gas services in north texas, including gathering of natural gas, and related services including compression, dehydration, amine treating, processing and marketing. kmp's copano north texas pipelines gather natural gas from the north barnett shale combo play located in cook, denton, montague and wise counties in texas and deliver the natural gas to both its saint jo processing plant located in montague county, texas and to third-party processing plants and pipelines. a large majority of the natural gas on the north texas system comes from a single producer under a long term contract which includes certain acreage dedications and volume commitments. kmp's saint jo high recovery cryogenic plant has an inlet capacity of 100 mmcf/d, and contains both a 1,500 gpm amine treating facility and condensate stabilization facilities. kmp's saint jo ngl pipeline system transports ngl from the plant to oneok partners' hydrocarbon's arbuckle ngl pipeline system. copano oklahoma region the copano oklahoma region provides midstream natural gas services in central and east oklahoma, including primarily low-pressure gathering of natural gas and related services such as compression, dehydration, treating, processing and nitrogen rejection. in addition to gathering natural gas to kmp's plants, the oklahoma segment delivers natural gas to third-party plants. depending on the contractual arrangements, third parties collect processing fees, retain a portion of the ngl or residue gas, or retain a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the ngl and residue gas in exchange for their services. the oklahoma region includes seven natural gas processing plants with a combined capacity of 236 mmcf/d, and over 3,900 miles of gathering pipelines. the region includes the operations of southern dome, llc, which provides gathering and processing services within the southern dome prospect in the southern portion of oklahoma county. kmp consolidates and currently holds a 69.5% ownership interest in southern dome. copano rocky mountain region the copano rocky mountain region provides midstream natural gas services in the powder river basin of wyoming, including gathering and treating of natural gas. the region includes kmp's (i) 51% equity ownership interest in bighorn gas gathering, llc, the sole owner of the bighorn natural gas gathering system; and (ii) 37.04% equity ownership interest in fort union gas gathering, llc, the sole owner of the fort union natural gas gathering system. the rocky mountain region also includes firm gathering agreements with fort union; firm transportation agreements with wyoming interstate gas company (wic), a wholly-owned subsidiary of ebp (which capacity has been released to various producers); and services provided to a number of producers in the powder river basin, including producers who deliver natural gas into the bighorn or fort union gathering systems. 21 bighorn provides low and high pressure natural gas gathering service to coal-bed methane producers in the powder river basin. kmp serves as managing member and field operator of bighorn. fort union takes delivery of natural gas from bighorn, provides gathering services to other producers and provides amine treating services at its medicine bow treating facility in order to meet the quality specifications of downstream pipelines. pipeline interconnects downstream from the fort union system include wic, tallgrass interstate gas transportation and colorado interstate gas company (cig), a wholly-owned subsidiary of ebp. fort union has firm gathering agreements with each of its four owners, including kmp. each owner has the right to use a fixed quantity of firm gathering capacity on the system (referred to as variable capacity) that must be paid for only to the extent the owner's dedicated production exceeds that owner's demand capacity. kmp serves as the managing member of fort union. western gas wyoming, l.l.c., a subsidiary of anadarko petroleum corporation, acts as field operator, and a oneok partners subsidiary acts as administrative manager and provides gas control, contract management and contract invoicing services. kmp interstate natural gas pipelines tgp kmp's subsidiary, tgp, owns the approximate 11,840-mile tennessee gas natural gas pipeline system. the system has a design capacity of approximately 8.5 bcf/d for natural gas, and during 2013 the average transport volume was 7,082 bbtu/d. the multiple-line tgp system begins in the natural gas producing regions of louisiana, the gulf of mexico and south texas and extends to the northeast section of the u.s., including the metropolitan areas of new york city and boston. kmp's tgp system connects with multiple pipelines (including interconnects at the u.s.-mexico border and the u.s.-canada border) that provide customers with access to diverse sources of supply and various natural gas markets. the pipeline system is also connected to four major shale formations: (i) the haynesville shale formation in northern louisiana and texas; (ii) the marcellus shale formation in pennsylvania; (iii) the utica shale formation that spans an area from ohio to pennsylvania; and (iv) the previously discussed eagle ford shale formation located in south texas. the tgp system also includes approximately 94 bcf of underground working natural gas storage capacity through partially owned facilities or long-term contracts. of this total storage capacity, 29.6 bcf is contracted from bear creek located in bienville parish, louisiana. bear creek is a joint venture equally owned by kmp and epb. the facility has 59.2 bcf of working natural gas storage capacity that is committed equally to kmp and epb. kmp's tgp pipeline system provides natural gas services to a variety of customers, including natural gas distribution and industrial companies, electric generation companies, natural gas producers, other natural gas pipelines and natural gas marketing and trading companies. its existing transportation and storage contracts expire at various times and in varying amounts of throughput capacity, and tgp's ability to extend its existing customer contracts or remarket expiring contracted capacity is dependent on competitive alternatives, the regulatory environment at the federal, state and local levels and market supply and demand factors at the relevant dates these contracts are extended or expire. the duration of new or renegotiated contracts will be affected by current prices, competitive conditions and judgments concerning future market trends and volatility. although tgp attempts to recontract or remarket its capacity at the maximum rates allowed under its tariff, it frequently enters into firm transportation contracts at amounts that are less than these maximum allowable rates to remain competitive. western interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's western interstate natural gas pipeline systems, which operate along the south central region and the rocky mountain region of the western portion of the u.s., consist of the following two natural gas pipeline systems (i) the combined el paso natural gas and mojave pipelines and (ii) the transcolorado pipeline. epng effective march 1, 2013, as part of the march 2013 drop-down transaction, kmp acquired the remaining 50% equity ownership interest in epng that it did not already own. epng is the sole owner of (i) the 10,141-mile epng pipeline system and (ii) mojave pipeline company, llc, the sole owner of the approximate 562-mile mojave pipeline system. although the mojave pipeline system is a wholly owned entity, it shares common pipeline and compression facilities that are 25% owned by mojave pipeline company, llc and 75% owned by kern river gas transmission company. 22 the epng system extends from the san juan, permian and anadarko basins to california, its single largest market, as well as markets in arizona, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas and northern mexico. it has a design capacity of 5.65 bcf/d for natural gas (reflecting winter-sustainable west-flow capacity of 4.85 bcf/d and approximately 800 mmcf/d of east-end delivery capacity). the mojave system connects with other pipeline systems including (i) the epng system near cadiz, california; (ii) the epng and transwestern pipeline company, llc systems at topock, arizona; and (iii) the kern river gas transmission company system in california. the mojave system also extends to customers in the vicinity of bakersfield, california. the portion of the total design capacity of the mojave system attributable to mojave pipeline company, llc, reflecting total east to west flow activity from topock to daggett. the east to west capacity from topock to the cadiz interconnect with epng is 456 mmcf/d. in addition to its two pipeline systems, epng utilizes its washington ranch underground natural gas storage facility located in new mexico to manage its transportation needs and to offer interruptible storage services. this storage facility has up to 44 billion cubic feet of underground working natural gas storage capacity. the epng system provides natural gas services to a variety of customers, including natural gas distribution and industrial companies, electric generation companies, natural gas producers, other natural gas pipelines, and natural gas marketing and trading companies. california, arizona, and mexico customers account for the majority of transportation on the epng system, followed by texas and new mexico. the mojave system is largely contracted to epng, which utilizes the capacity to provide service to epng's customers. furthermore, the epng system also delivers natural gas to mexico along the u.s. border serving customers in the mexican states of chihuahua, sonora, and baja california. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 3,326 bbtu/d on epng and 6 bbtu/d on mojave. transcolorado gas transmission company llc kmp's subsidiary, transcolorado, owns a 312-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that extends from approximately 20 miles southwest of meeker, colorado to the blanco hub near bloomfield, new mexico. it has multiple points of interconnection with various interstate and intrastate pipelines, gathering systems, and local distribution companies. the transcolorado pipeline system is powered by eight compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 39,000 horsepower. the system is bi-directional to the north and south and has a pipeline capacity of 1.0 bcf/d of natural gas. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 303 bbtu/d. the transcolorado pipeline system receives natural gas from a coal seam natural gas treating plant, located in the san juan basin of colorado, and from pipeline, processing plant and gathering system interconnections within the paradox and piceance basins of western colorado. it provides transportation services to third-party natural gas producers, marketers, gathering companies, local distribution companies and other shippers. pursuant to transportation agreements and ferc tariff provisions, transcolorado offers its customers firm and interruptible transportation and interruptible park and loan services. transcolorado also has the authority to negotiate rates with customers if it has first offered service to those customers under its reservation and commodity charge rate structure. central interstate natural gas pipeline group kmp's central interstate natural gas pipeline group, which operates primarily in the mid-continent region of the u.s., consists of the following three natural gas pipeline systems (i) kinder morgan louisiana pipeline; (ii) its 50% ownership interest in midcontinent express pipeline llc (mep); and (iii) its 50% ownership interest in fayetteville express pipeline llc (fep). kinder morgan louisiana pipeline kmp's subsidiary, kinder morgan louisiana pipeline llc owns the kinder morgan louisiana natural gas pipeline system. the pipeline system provides approximately 3.2 bcf/d of take-away natural gas capacity from the cheniere sabine pass lng terminal located in cameron parish, louisiana, and transports natural gas to various delivery points located in cameron, calcasieu, jefferson davis, acadia and evangeline parishes in louisiana. the system capacity is fully supported by 20-year take-or-pay customer commitments with chevron and total that expire in 2029. the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system consists of two segments. the first segment is an approximate 132-mile, 42-inch diameter pipeline that extends from the sabine pass terminal to a point of interconnection with an existing columbia gulf transmission line in evangeline parish, louisiana (an offshoot consists of approximately 2 miles of 24-inch diameter pipeline extending away from the 42-inch diameter line to the florida gas transmission company compressor station located in acadia parish, 23 louisiana). the second segment is an approximate one-mile, 36-inch diameter pipeline that extends from the sabine pass terminal and connects to ngpl's natural gas pipeline. in 2013, the kinder morgan louisiana pipeline system transported 9 bbtu/d. midcontinent express pipeline llc (mep) kmp operates and owns a 50% interest in mep, the sole owner of the approximate 500-mile midcontinent express natural gas pipeline system. the remaining 50% ownership interest in mep is owned by regency midcontinent express llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of regency energy partners, l.p. the midcontinent express pipeline system originates near bennington, oklahoma and extends eastward through texas, louisiana, and mississippi, and terminates at an interconnection with the transco pipeline near butler, alabama. it interconnects with numerous major pipeline systems and provides an important infrastructure link in the pipeline system moving natural gas supply from newly developed areas in oklahoma and texas into the u.s. eastern markets. the pipeline system is comprised of approximately 30-miles of 30-inch diameter pipe, approximately 275-miles of 42-inch diameter pipe and approximately 200-miles of 36-inch diameter pipe. the midcontinent express system also has four compressor stations and one booster station totaling approximately 144,500 horsepower. it has two rate zones: (i) zone 1 beginning at bennington and extending to an interconnect with columbia gulf transmission near delhi, in madison parish louisiana; and (ii) zone 2 beginning at delhi and terminating at an interconnection with transco pipeline near the town of butler in choctaw county, alabama. capacity on the midcontinent express system is 99% contracted under long-term firm service agreements that expire between august 2014 and 2020. the majority of volume is contracted to producers moving supply from the barnett shale and oklahoma supply basins. in 2013, the midcontinent express pipeline system transported 1,315 bbtu/d. fayetteville express pipeline llc (fep) kmp owns a 50% interest in fep, the sole owner of the fayetteville express natural gas pipeline system. energy transfer partners, l.p. owns the remaining 50% ownership interest and also serves as operator and managing member of fep. the 185-mile fayetteville express pipeline system originates in conway county, arkansas, continues eastward through white county, arkansas, and terminates at an interconnect with trunkline gas company's pipeline in panola county, mississippi. the system also interconnects with ngpl's pipeline in white county, arkansas, texas gas transmission's pipeline in coahoma county, mississippi, and anr pipeline company's pipeline in quitman county, mississippi. capacity on the fayetteville express system is over 90% contracted under long-term firm service agreements. in 2013, the fayetteville express pipeline system transported 1,270 bbtu/d. it has a total capacity of 2.0 bcf/d. epb epb owns wic, slng, elba express, sng, cig, slc and cpg. its pipeline systems, storage facilities and lng receiving terminal operate under tariffs approved by the ferc that establish rates, cost recovery mechanisms and other terms and conditions of services to epb's customers. the fees or rates established under epb's tariff are a function of the cost of providing services to its customers, including a reasonable return on its invested capital. sng sng is comprised of pipelines extending from natural gas supply basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama to market areas in louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee, including the metropolitan areas of atlanta and birmingham. sng owns pipeline facilities serving southeastern markets in alabama, georgia and south carolina. sng owns 100% of the muldon storage facility and a 50% interest in bear creek. the storage facilities have a combined peak withdrawal capacity of 1.2 bcf/d. the sng system is also connected to slng's elba island lng terminal. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 2,491 bbtu/d. cig cig is comprised of pipelines that deliver natural gas from production areas in the rocky mountains and the anadarko basin directly to customers in colorado, wyoming and indirectly to the midwest, southwest, california and pacific northwest. cig also owns interests in five storage facilities located in colorado and kansas and one natural gas processing plant located in wyoming. 24 cig owns a 50% interest in wyco, a joint venture with an affiliate of public service company of colorado (psco). wyco owns totem and the 164-mile high plains, both of which are in northeast colorado and are operated by cig under a long-term agreement with wyco. totem has a peak withdrawal capacity of 200 mmcf/d and a maximum injection rate of 150 mmcf/d. totem services and interconnects with high plains. wyco also owns a state regulated intrastate gas pipeline that extends from the cheyenne hub in northeast colorado to psco's fort st. vrain's electric generation plant, which cig does not operate, and a compressor station in wyoming leased by wic. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 2,200 bbtu/d. wic wic is comprised of a mainline system that extends from western wyoming to northeast colorado (the cheyenne hub) and several lateral pipeline systems that extend from various interconnections along the wic mainline into western colorado, northeast wyoming and eastern utah. wic owns interstate natural gas transportation systems providing takeaway capacity from the mature overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 2,348 bbtu/d. cpg cpg is a pipeline system that extends from cheyenne hub in weld county, colorado and extends southerly to a variety of delivery points in the vicinity of the greensburg hub in kiowa county, kansas. cpg provides pipeline takeaway capacity from the natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area to the major natural gas markets in the mid-continent region. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 278 bbtu/d. elba express elba express owns the elba express pipeline which is capable of transporting natural gas supplies in a northerly direction from the elba island lng terminal to markets in the southeastern and eastern u.s. or transporting natural gas in a southernly direction from interconnections with transcontinental pipeline to markets located on elba express or to interconnections between elba express and sng, carolina gas transmission and slng. under a firm transportation service agreement, the entire south to north capacity of elba express is contracted to shell na lng llc (shell lng) for 30 years at a fixed rate that was reduced on december 31, 2013 and will remain flat thereafter with respect to current facilities. the shell lng firm transportation service agreement is supported by a parent guarantee from shell oil company (shell) that secures the timely performance of the obligations of the agreement. under a separate firm transportation service agreement, the entire north to south capacity of elba express is contracted to bg lng services, llc (bg lng) for 25 years at a fixed rate. the bg lng firm transportation service agreement is supported by a parent guarantee from bg energy holdings limited that secures the timely performance of the obligations of the agreement. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 181 bbtu/d. slng slng owns the elba island lng receiving terminal, located near savannah, georgia. the elba island lng terminal is one of nine land-based terminal facilities in the u.s. capable of providing domestic storage and vaporization services to international producers of lng. the elba island lng terminal has approximately 11.5 bcf equivalent of lng storage capacity and approximately 1.8 bcf/d of peak send-out capacity. the capacity of the elba island lng terminal is fully contracted with bg lng services, llc (bg lng) under a negotiated rate contract comprised predominately of a recourse based reservation rate with a small variable component and shell lng under a long-term step-down fixed reservation rate contract (that was reduced beginning on december 31, 2013 and will remain flat thereafter). the reservation rate payments due under these contracts are payable to epb regardless of utilization. the firm slng service agreements are supported by parent guarantees from bg energy holdings limited (bg) and shell that secure the timely performance of the obligations of those agreements. the elba island lng terminal is directly connected to three interstate pipelines, indirectly connected to two others, and also connected by commercial arrangements to a major local distribution company; thus, it is readily accessible to the southeast and mid-atlantic markets. other kmi owned natural gas interests southern gulf lng company, l.l.c. southern gulf lng company, l.l.c. (southern gulf) owns a 50% interest in gulf lng holdings group, llc which owns an lng receiving, storage and regasification terminal near pascagoula, mississippi. the facility has a peak send out capacity of 1.5 bcf per day and storage capacity of 6.6 bcf. the terminal is fully subscribed under long term contracts and is directly connected by a five mile pipeline to four interstate pipelines and extends to a natural gas processing plant. 25 ruby pipeline holding company, l.l.c. we own a 50% interest in the ruby pipeline holding company, l.l.c. which is a 680 mile pipeline extending from wyoming to oregon that provides natural gas supplies from the major rocky mountain basins to consumers in california, nevada, and the pacific northwest. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 849 bbtu/d. young gas storage company, ltd we own a 47.5% interest in young gas storage company, ltd which is a storage system consisting of 38 natural gas storage facility wells, a 6,000 horsepower compressor station, a gas processing plant, eleven miles of 20-inch pipeline and four miles of storage gathering line. kmi expects to sell its interests in southern gulf, ruby pipeline holding company l.l.c. and young gas storage company, ltd to epb during 2014. citrus corp. we own a 50% interest in citrus corp. which owns florida gas transmission company, l.l.c. (florida gas). florida gas is a 5,300 mile open access interstate natural gas pipeline extending from texas through the gulf coast region of the u.s. to south florida. florida gas' pipeline system primarily receives natural gas from producing basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico, and transports it to the florida market. in 2013, transport volumes averaged 2,327 bbtu/d. ngpl we own an indirect 20% interest in and operate ngpl, which is a 9,220-mile pipeline and storage company. competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. these operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are transportation rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other pipeline projects are proposed that would compete with our pipelines, and some proposed pipelines may deliver natural gas to markets we serve from new supply sources closer to those markets. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane and fuel oils. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. 26 co 2 kmp the co 2 kmp business segment consists of kmco 2 and its consolidated affiliates. the co 2 kmp business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. kmco 2 's co 2 pipelines and related assets allow it to market a complete package of co 2 supply, transportation and technical expertise to its customers. kmco 2 also holds ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and owns a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests kmco 2 holds ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, including: (i) an approximate 97% working interest in the sacroc unit; (ii) an approximate 50% working interest in the yates unit; (iii) an approximate 99% working interest in the goldsmith landreth san andres unit; (iv) an approximate 21% net profits interest in the h.t. boyd unit; (v) an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit; and (vi) lesser interests in the sharon ridge unit, the reinecke unit and the midcross unit. the sacroc unit is one of the largest and oldest oil fields in the u.s. using co 2 flooding technology. the field is comprised of approximately 56,000 acres located in the permian basin in scurry county, texas. kmco 2 has expanded the development of the co 2 project initiated by the previous owners and increased production and ultimate oil recovery over the last several years. in 2013, the average purchased co 2 injection rate at sacroc was 126 mmcf/d. the average oil production rate for 2013 was approximately 30,700 bbl/d of oil (22,500 net bbl/d to kmco 2 ). the yates unit is also one of the largest oil fields ever discovered in the u.s. the field is comprised of approximately 26,000 acres located about 90 miles south of midland, texas. kmco 2 's plan over the last several years has been to maintain overall production levels and increase ultimate recovery from yates by combining horizontal drilling with co 2 injection to ensure a relatively steady production profile over the next several years. in 2013, the average purchased co 2 injection rate at the yates unit was 99 mmcf/d, and during 2013, the yates unit produced approximately 20.4 mbbl/d of oil ( net 9.0 mbbl/d to kmco 2 ). effective june 1, 2013, kmco 2 acquired from legado resources llc their approximate 99% working interest in the goldsmith landreth san andres oil field unit, which includes more than 6,000 acres located in ector county, texas. the acquired oil field is in the early stages of co 2 flood development and includes a residual oil zone along with a classic san andres waterflood. during kmp's period of ownership for the remainder of 2013, the average purchased co 2 injection rate at the goldsmith unit was 59 mmcf/d, and during kmp's period of ownership for the remainder of 2013, the goldsmith unit produced approximately 1,300 bbl/d of oil (1,100 net bbl/d to kmco 2 ). kmco 2 also operates and owns an approximate 99% working interest in the katz strawn unit, located in the permian basin area of west texas. during 2013, the katz strawn unit produced approximately 2,700 bbl/d of oil (2,200 net bbl/d to kmco 2 ). in 2013, the average purchased co 2 injection rate at the katz strawn unit was 72 mmcf/d. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which kmp owned interests as of december 31, 2013. the oil and gas producing fields in which kmp interests are located is in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which kmp has a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by kmp: productive wells(a) service wells(b) drilling wells(c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,164 1,356 1,092 846 3 3 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,169 1,358 1,092 846 3 3 _______ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2013, kmp did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. 27 (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids and/or gases that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2013. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects kmp's net productive and dry wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 productive development 51 59 85 exploratory 4 dry development exploratory total wells 55 59 85 _______ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. there were no dry wells completed during the periods presented. the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that kmp held as of december 31, 2013: gross net developed acres 75,111 71,919 undeveloped acres 17,603 15,334 total 92,714 87,253 _______ note: as of december 31, 2013, kmp has no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see supplemental information on oil and gas activities (unaudited) for additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on kmp's oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests kmco 2 operates and owns an approximate 22% working interest plus an additional 28% net profits interest in the snyder gasoline plant. it also operates and owns a 51% ownership interest in the diamond m gas plant and a 100% ownership interest in the north snyder plant, all of which are located in the permian basin of west texas. the snyder gasoline plant processes natural gas produced from the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units, all of which are located in the permian basin area of west texas. the diamond m and the north snyder plants contract with the snyder plant to process natural gas. production of ngl at the snyder gasoline plant during 2013 averaged approximately 19.5 gross mbbl/d (9.6 net mbbl/d to kmco 2 excluding the value associated to kmco 2 's 28% net profits interest). sales and transportation activities co 2 kmco 2 owns approximately 45% of, and operates, the mcelmo dome unit in colorado, which contains more than 5.9 trillion cubic feet of recoverable co 2 as of january 1, 2014. it also owns approximately 87% of, and operates, the doe canyon deep unit in colorado, which contains approximately 832 bcf of recoverable co 2 as of january 1, 2014. for both units combined, compression capacity exceeds 1.6 bcf/d of co 2 and during 2013, the two units produced approximately 1.2 bcf/d of co 2 . kmco 2 also owns (i) approximately 11% of the bravo dome unit in new mexico; and (ii) 100% of the st. johns co 2 source field and related assets located in apache county, arizona, and catron county, new mexico. the bravo dome unit contains approximately 702 bcf of recoverable co 2 as of january 1, 2014 and produced approximately 270 million cubic feet of co 2 per day in 2013. we are continuing to perform pre-development activity and test wells; however, we believe the st. 28 johns co 2 source field consists of all of the co 2 and helium located in both the st. johns gas unit, a 158,000 acre unit located in apache county, arizona containing approximately 1.3 trillion cubic feet of recoverable co 2 as of january 1, 2014, and the cottonwood canyon co 2 unit, an approximate 90,000 acre unit located in catron county, new mexico containing approximately 360 bcf of recoverable co 2 as of january 1, 2014. the principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. co 2 pipelines through its 50% ownership interest in cortez pipeline company, kmco 2 owns a 50% equity interest in and operates the approximate 500-mile cortez pipeline. the pipeline carries co 2 from the mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields near cortez, colorado to the denver city, texas hub. in 2013, the cortez pipeline system transported approximately 1.2 bcf of co 2 per day. the tariffs charged by the cortez pipeline are not regulated, but are based on a consent decree. kmco 2 's central basin pipeline consists of approximately 143 miles of mainline pipe and 177 miles of lateral supply lines located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and mccamey, texas. the pipeline has a throughput capacity of 700 mmcf/d. at its origination point in denver city, the central basin pipeline interconnects with all three major co 2 supply pipelines from colorado and new mexico, namely the cortez pipeline (operated by kmco 2 ) and the bravo and sheep mountain pipelines (operated by oxy permian). central basin's mainline terminates near mccamey, where it interconnects with the canyon reef carriers pipeline and the pecos pipeline. kmco 2 's centerline co 2 pipeline consists of approximately 113 miles of pipe located in the permian basin between denver city, texas and snyder, texas. the pipeline has a capacity of 300 mmcf/d. kmco 2 's eastern shelf co 2 pipeline, which consists of approximately 91 miles of pipe located in the permian basin, begins near snyder, texas and ends west of knox city, texas. the eastern shelf pipeline has a capacity of 110 mmcf/d. kmco 2 also owns a 13% undivided interest in the 218-mile, bravo pipeline, which delivers co 2 from the bravo dome source field in northeast new mexico to the denver city hub and has a capacity of more than 350 mmcf/d. tariffs on the bravo pipeline are not regulated. occidental petroleum (81%) and xto energy (6%) hold the remaining ownership interests in the bravo pipeline. in addition, kmco 2 owns approximately 98% of the canyon reef carriers pipeline and approximately 69% of the pecos pipeline. the canyon reef carriers pipeline extends 139 miles from mccamey, texas, to the sacroc unit in the permian basin. the pipeline has a capacity of approximately 270 mmcf/d and makes deliveries to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units. the pecos pipeline is a 25-mile pipeline that runs from mccamey to iraan, texas. it has a capacity of approximately 120 mmcf/d and makes deliveries to the yates unit. the tariffs charged on the canyon reef carriers and pecos pipelines are not regulated. the principal market for transportation on kmco 2 's co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. the tariffs charged by the co 2 pipelines are not regulated; however, the tariff charged on the cortez pipeline is based on a consent decree. crude oil pipeline kmco 2 owns the kinder morgan wink pipeline, a 450-mile texas intrastate crude oil pipeline system consisting of three mainline sections, two gathering systems and numerous truck delivery stations. the pipeline allows kmco 2 to better manage crude oil deliveries from its oil field interests in west texas. kmco 2 has entered into a long-term throughput agreement with western refining company, l.p. (western refining) to transport crude oil into western refining's refinery located in el paso, texas. the throughput agreement expires in 2034. the 20-inch diameter pipeline segment that runs from wink to el paso, texas has a total capacity of 130 mbbl/d of crude oil with the use of drag reduction agent (dra), but we are currently expanding to 145 mbbl/d. in 2013, the kinder morgan wink pipeline transported approximately 119 mbbl/d of oil. the tariffs charged on the pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission. competition kmco 2 's primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources, and oxy usa, inc., which controls waste co 2 extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. kmco 2 's ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo 29 pipelines are in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. kmco 2 also competes with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. products pipelines kmp the products pipelines-kmp segment consists of kmp's refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, and its transmix processing facilities. west coast products pipelines kmp's west coast products pipelines include sfpp operations (often referred to in this report as kmp's pacific operations), calnev pipeline operations, and west coast terminals operations. the assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc and intrastate pipelines in the state of california, rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. kmp's pacific operations serve six western states with approximately 2,500 miles of refined petroleum products pipelines and related terminal facilities that provide refined products to major population centers in the u.s., including california; las vegas and reno, nevada; and the phoenix-tucson, arizona corridor. in 2013, the pacific operations' mainline pipeline system transported approximately 1.1 mmbbl/d of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 60% gasoline, 23% diesel fuel, and 17% jet fuel. kmp's calnev pipeline system consists of two parallel 248-mile, 14-inch and 8-inch diameter pipelines that run from its facilities at colton, california to las vegas, nevada. the pipeline serves the mojave region through deliveries to a terminal at barstow, california and two nearby major railroad yards. it also serves nellis air force base, located in las vegas, and serves a military supply terminal at barstow for various desert defense installations which is operated by calnev. calnev also serves edwards air force base in california through a 55 mile pipeline. in 2013, the calnev pipeline system transported approximately 104 mbbl/d of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 39% gasoline, 30% diesel fuel, and 31% jet fuel. west coast products pipelines operations include 15 truck-loading terminals (13 on pacific operations and two on calnev) with an aggregate usable tankage capacity of approximately 15.5 mmbbl. the truck terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. west coast terminals are fee-based terminals located in the seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas along the west coast of the u.s. with a combined total capacity of approximately 9.2 mmbbl of storage for both petroleum products and chemicals. west coast products pipelines and associated west coast terminals together handled 17.6 mmbbl of ethanol in 2013. combined, west coast products pipelines operations' pipelines transport approximately 1.2 mmbbl/d of refined petroleum products, providing pipeline service to approximately 28 customer-owned terminals, 10 commercial airports and 15 military bases. the pipeline systems serve approximately 60 shippers in the refined petroleum products market, the largest customers being major petroleum companies, independent refiners, and the u.s. military. the majority of refined products supplied to the west coast product pipelines come from the major refining centers around los angeles, san francisco, west texas and from waterborne terminals and connecting pipelines located near these refining centers. plantation pipe line company kmp owns approximately 51% of plantation, the sole owner of the approximately 3,100-mile refined petroleum products plantation pipeline system serving the southeastern u.s. kmp operates the system pursuant to agreements with plantation and its wholly-owned subsidiary, plantation services llc. the plantation pipeline system originates in louisiana and terminates in the washington, d.c. area. it connects to approximately 130 shipper delivery terminals throughout eight states and serves as a common carrier of refined petroleum products to various metropolitan areas, including birmingham, alabama; atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; and the washington, d.c. area. an affiliate of exxonmobil corporation owns the remaining approximately 49% ownership interest, and exxonmobil has historically been one of the largest shippers on the plantation system both in terms of volumes and revenues. in 2013, plantation delivered approximately 576,600 bbl/d of refined petroleum products, with the product mix being approximately 71% gasoline, 17% diesel fuel, and 12% jet fuel. 30 products shipped on plantation originate at various gulf coast refineries from which major integrated oil companies and independent refineries and wholesalers ship refined petroleum products, from other products pipeline systems, and via marine facilities located along the mississippi river. plantation ships products for approximately 40 companies to terminals throughout the southeastern u.s. plantation's principal customers are gulf coast refining and marketing companies, and fuel wholesalers. central florida pipeline kmp's central florida pipeline system consists of a 110-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline that transports gasoline and ethanol, and an 85-mile, 10-inch diameter pipeline that transports diesel fuel and jet fuel from tampa to orlando. the central florida pipeline operations also include two separate liquids terminals located in tampa and taft, florida, which kmp owns and operates. in addition to being connected to the tampa terminal, the central florida pipeline system is connected to terminals owned and operated by transmontaigne, citgo, buckeye, and marathon petroleum. the 10-inch diameter pipeline is connected to the taft terminal (located near orlando), has an intermediate delivery point at intercession city, florida, and is also the sole pipeline supplying jet fuel to the orlando international airport in orlando, florida. in 2013, the pipeline system transported approximately 95,400 bbl/d of refined products, with the product mix being approximately 71% gasoline and ethanol, 10% diesel fuel, and 19% jet fuel. the tampa terminal contains approximately 1.6 mmbbl of refined products storage capacity and is connected to two ship dock facilities in the port of tampa and is also connected to an ethanol unit train off-load facility. the taft terminal contains approximately 0.8 mmbbl of storage capacity, for gasoline, ethanol and diesel fuel for further movement into trucks. cochin pipeline system kmp's cochin pipeline system consists of an approximately 1,900-mile, 12-inch diameter multi-product pipeline operating between fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario, along with five terminals. the pipeline operates on a batched basis and has an estimated system capacity of 50 mbbl/d. it includes 31 pump stations spaced at 60 mile intervals and five u.s. propane terminals. underground storage is available at fort saskatchewan, alberta and windsor, ontario through third parties. the pipeline traverses three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. and can transport ethane, propane, butane and ngl to the midwestern u.s. and eastern canadian petrochemical and fuel markets. in 2013, the system transported approximately 33 mbbl/d of propane, and 16.4 mbbl/d of ethane-propane mix. in mid-2014, kmp expects to complete the expansion and reversal of the cochin pipeline system to transport 95 mbbl/d of condensate from a new receipt terminal in kankakee county, illinois to third party storage in fort saskatchewan, alberta. cypress pipeline kmp owns 50% of cypress interstate pipeline llc, the sole owner of the cypress pipeline system. kmp operates the system pursuant to a long-term agreement. the cypress pipeline is an interstate common carrier ngl pipeline originating at storage facilities in mont belvieu, texas and extending 104 miles east to a connection with westlake chemical corporation, a major petrochemical producer in the lake charles, louisiana area. mont belvieu, located approximately 20 miles east of houston, is the largest hub for ngl gathering, transportation, fractionation and storage in the u.s. the cypress pipeline system has a current capacity of approximately 55 mbbl/d for ngl. in 2013, the system transported approximately 52.8 mbbl/d. southeast terminals kmp's southeast terminal operations consist of 28 high-quality, liquid petroleum products terminals located along the plantation/colonial pipeline corridor in the southeastern u.s. the marketing activities of the southeast terminal operations are focused on the southeastern u.s. from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee. the primary function involves the receipt of petroleum products from common carrier pipelines, short-term storage in terminal tankage, and subsequent loading onto tank trucks. combined, the southeast terminals have a total storage capacity of approximately 9.1 mmbbl. in 2013, these terminals transferred approximately 418.1 mbbl/d of refined products and together handled 15.8 mmbbl of ethanol. transmix operations kmp's transmix operations include the processing of petroleum pipeline transmix, a blend of dissimilar refined petroleum products that have become co-mingled in the pipeline transportation process. during pipeline transportation, different products 31 are transported through the pipelines abutting each other, and generate a volume of different mixed products called transmix. kmp processes and separates pipeline transmix into pipeline-quality gasoline and light distillate products at six separate processing facilities located in colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina. combined, these transmix facilities handled approximately 11.3 mmbbl in 2013. kinder morgan crude &amp; condensate pipeline the kinder morgan crude and condensate pipeline is a texas intrastate pipeline that transports crude oil and condensate from the eagle ford shale field in south texas to the houston ship channel refining complex. the 24-to-30-inch pipeline currently originates in dewitt county, texas, and extends approximately 178 miles to third party storage. it delivers product to multiple terminaling facilities that provide access to local refineries, petrochemical plants and docks along the texas gulf coast. the pipeline operates on a batch basis and has a capacity of 300 mbbl/d. in 2013, the pipeline system transported approximately 8.8 mmbbl. due to strong interest for transportation of eagle ford crude and condensate to the houston ship channel, kmp has secured long-term commitments for more than two-thirds of the 300 mbbl/d of capacity on the pipeline. double eagle pipeline llc as part of kmp's may 1, 2013 copano acquisition, it acquired a 50% ownership interest in double eagle pipeline llc, the sole owner of the double eagle pipeline system. double eagle pipeline system provides crude oil and condensate gathering and transportation services for eagle ford shale gas producers. the remaining 50% ownership interest in double eagle is owned by magellan midstream partners, l.p. kmp operates the approximate 195-mile double eagle pipeline system which consists of three segments (i) a 73-mile line that extends from three rivers, texas, in live oak county, texas to magellan's corpus christi terminal; (ii) a 37-mile line that extends from northern karnes county texas to three rivers; and (iii) an 85-mile line that extends from gardendale, texas, in lasalle county to three rivers. the double eagle joint venture operations also include a truck unloading facility and a 400 mbbl storage facility located along the pipeline near three rivers for deliveries and storage of condensate destined for corpus christi. combined, the pipeline system has a capacity of 100 mbbl/d, but can be expanded to approximately 150 mbbl/d, and is supported by long-term customer commitments from talisman energy usa inc. and statoil marketing and trading (us) inc. competition kmp's products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. the products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and kmp's transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. terminals kmp kmp's terminals segment includes the operations of its petroleum, chemical and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines kmp segment) and all of its coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. combined, the segment is composed of approximately 122 owned or operated liquids and bulk terminal facilities and approximately 10 rail transloading and materials handling facilities. kmp's terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. kmp believes the location of its facilities and its ability to provide flexibility to customers helps keep customers at its terminals and provides kmp opportunities for expansion. kmp often classifies its terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or bulk material products. liquids terminals kmps liquids terminals operations primarily store refined petroleum products, petrochemicals, ethanol, industrial chemicals and vegetable oil products in above-ground storage tanks and transfer products to and from pipelines, vessels, tank trucks, tank barges, and tank railcars. combined, kmp's approximately 40 liquids terminals facilities possess liquids storage capacity of approximately 68.1 mmbbl, and in 2013, these terminals handled approximately 618.9 mmbbl of liquids products, including petroleum products, ethanol and chemicals. 32 bulk terminals kmps bulk terminal operations primarily involve dry-bulk material handling services. kmp also provides conveyor manufacturing and installation, engineering and design services, and in-plant services covering material handling, conveying, maintenance and repair, truck-railcar-marine transloading, railcar switching and miscellaneous marine services. kmp owns or operates approximately 82 dry-bulk terminals in the u.s. and canada, and combined, its dry-bulk and material transloading facilities (described below) handled approximately 89.9 million tons of coal, petroleum coke, fertilizers, steel, ores and other dry-bulk materials in 2013. materials services (rail transloading) kmp's materials services operations include rail or truck transloading shipments from one medium of transportation to another conducted at approximately 10 owned and non-owned facilities. the burlington northern santa fe, csx, norfolk southern, union pacific, kansas city southern and a&amp;w railroads provide rail service for these terminal facilities. approximately 50% of the products handled are liquids, including an entire spectrum of liquid chemicals, and the rest are dry-bulk products. many of the facilities are equipped for bi-modal operation (rail-to-truck, and truck-to-rail) or connect via pipeline to storage facilities. several facilities provide railcar storage services. kmp also designs and builds transloading facilities, performs inventory management services, and provides value-added services such as blending, heating and sparging. effective march 31, 2013, transflo, a wholly owned subsidiary of csx, elected to terminate their contract with kmp's materials handling wholly-owned subsidiary, kinder morgan materials services (kmms). this contract covered 25 terminals located on the csx railroad throughout the southeastern section of the u.s. kmms performed transloading services at the 25 terminals, which included rail-to-truck and truck-to-rail transloading of bulk and liquid products. competition kmp is one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in the u.s, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. its liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical and pipeline companies. its bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminal services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. kmp's rail transloading (material services) operations compete with a variety of single- or multi-site transload, warehouse and terminal operators across the u.s. its ethanol rail transload operations compete with a variety of ethanol handling terminal sites across the u.s., many offering waterborne service, truck loading, and unit train capability serviced by class 1 rail carriers. kinder morgan canada kmp kmp's kinder morgan canada business segment includes trans mountain pipeline system and a 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. the trans mountain pipeline is 715 miles in length. kmp also owns a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude oil percentage), to 400 mbbl/d with no heavy crude oil. the crude oil and refined petroleum products transported through trans mountain pipeline system originate in alberta and british columbia. the refined and partially refined petroleum products transported to kamloops, british columbia and vancouver originate from oil refineries located in edmonton, alberta. petroleum products delivered through trans mountain's pipeline system are used in markets in british columbia, washington state and elsewhere offshore. in 2013, the trans mountain pipeline system delivered an average of 264 mbbl/d. in february 2013, trans mountain completed negotiations with the canadian association of petroleum producers for a new negotiated toll settlement effective for the period beginning january 1, 2013 and ending december 31, 2015. the neb approved the toll settlement in april 2013. the 2013-2015 negotiated settlement contains provisions for extension of the settlement that would likely cause the 2013-2015 settlement to be extended to the completion of the expansion of trans mountain at the end of 2017. in 2012, trans mountain succeeded in contracting approximately 80% of its total planned capacity based on a $5.4 billion expansion of the trans mountain pipeline 33 from 300 mbbl to 890 mbbl, based on 15 and 20 year take or pay contracts. in may 2013, the neb approved the commercial terms of the expansion agreement. on december 16, 2013, trans mountain filed its application for a certificate of public need, including neb approval on all remaining aspects of the project. the regulatory process is expected to be completed in the middle of 2015. trans mountain also operates a 5.3 mile spur line from its sumas pump station to the u.s. - canada international border where it connects with kmp's approximate 63-mile, 16-inch to 20-inch diameter puget sound pipeline system. the puget sound pipeline system in the state of washington has a sustainable throughput capacity of approximately 180 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents approximately 5% of throughput, and it connects to four refineries located in northwestern washington state. the volumes of crude oil shipped to the state of washington fluctuate in response to the price levels of canadian crude oil in relation to crude oil produced in alaska and other offshore sources and in response to available capacity on the trans mountain system. jet fuel pipeline system kmp also owns and operates the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15 mbbl. competition trans mountain is one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and it competes against other pipeline providers; however, it is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. furthermore, as demonstrated by kmp's previously announced expansion proposal, discussed above in -(a) general development of business-recent developments-kinder morgan canada, it believes that the trans mountain pipeline facilities provide it the opportunity to execute on capacity expansions to the west coast as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in december, 2013 the british columbia ministry of environment granted approval for a new, airport fuel consortium owned, jet fuel terminal to be located near the vancouver international airport. the impact of this facility on our existing jet fuel pipeline system is uncertain at this time. other during 2013, our other segment activities include those operations that were acquired from ep on may 25, 2012 and are primarily related to several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities. these contracts obligate ep to sell natural gas to these plants and have various expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2028. this segment also included an interest in the bolivia to brazil pipeline, which we sold for $88 million on january 18, 2013. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. kmp's texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 -kmp business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 -kmp business segments in 2013, 2012 and 2011 accounted for 28%, 28% and 42%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of its natural gas purchases to its natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on kmp's pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. our subsidiary trans mountain pipeline, l.p. is the sole owner of our trans mountain crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline system. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. for further information, see -interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations above. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates to meet competition, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to offer negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of a fixed rate during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, and while rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, the terms and conditions of pipeline transportation and storage services are not generally negotiable. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, through the mid-1990's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes 35 intended to create a more competitive environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; and order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage). the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information; (iv) independent functioning; (v) transparency; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the north american energy standards board business practice standards. the ferc also promulgates certain standards of conduct that apply uniformly to interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities. in light of the changing structure of the energy industry, these standards of conduct govern employee relationships-using a functional approach-to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis. pursuant to the ferc's standards of conduct, a natural gas transmission provider is prohibited from disclosing to a marketing function employee non-public information about the transmission system or a transmission customer. additionally, no-conduit provisions prohibit a transmission function provider from disclosing non-public information to marketing function employees by using a third party conduit. rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of kmp's pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by kmp with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to kmp's ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. certain of the pacific operations' pipeline rates have been, and continue to be, subject to complaints with the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. texas railroad commission rate regulation the intrastate operations of our natural gas and crude oil pipelines in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the texas railroad commission. the texas railroad commission has the authority to regulate our transportation rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulating commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulating commission (the commission) that defines the general and directional conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2032. 36 this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitations (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the project presented to the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by the department of transportation phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on the costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the department of transportation rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the president signed into law new pipeline safety legislation in january 2012, the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules, among other matters, and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few years. phmsa is also currently considering changes to its regulations. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine the pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of such pressures, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records or verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other comparable federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which 37 may precipitate claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. kmp is subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. as a result, kmp monitors the foreign ownership of its ownership interests. if kmp does not comply with such requirements, it would be prohibited from operating its vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances kmp would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for its vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the u.s. secretary of transportation the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including kmp, provided that kmp is considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of its vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, kmp would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, kmp would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $378 million as of december 31, 2013. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $378 million to approximately $562 million , and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. 38 hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. we believe that the operations of our pipelines, storage facilities and terminals are in substantial compliance with such statutes. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see -climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain greenhouse gases including co2 and methane. our facilities are subject to substantial compliance with these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting and permitting requirements. additionally, the epa has announced that it will propose new regulations of greenhouse gases which may impose further requirements, including emission control requirements, on kinder morgan facilities. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already 39 have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for greenhouse gases that go beyond the requirements of the epa. depending on the particular program, we could be required to conduct monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our and our subsidiaries operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 -kmp business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,075 full-time people at december 31, 2013, including approximately 828 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2014 and 2018. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units (subsidiaries or limited partnerships). the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and 40 other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries and limited partnerships. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries and limited partnerships pursuant to existing expense allocation procedures. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. these processes are in accordance with limited partnership agreements, board of directors' approved policies and other agreements including the delegation of control agreement among kmgp, kmr, kmp and others. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 15 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to our business we are dependent on cash distributions received from kmp and epb. for 2013, distributions from kmp and epb represented approximately 87% of the sum of total cash generated by (i) distributions payable to us by our mlps (on a declared basis) and (ii) distributable cash generated by assets we own and our share of cash generated by our joint venture investments. a decline in kmp's and/or epb's revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash kmp and epb can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders, which could be material. 41 table of contents new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. for example, the department of homeland security appropriation act of 2007 required the issuance of regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present high levels of security risk. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-regulation. the ferc, the cpuc or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc or the neb allows us to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results can be negatively impacted. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may initiate investigations to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on kmp's, epb's and our other pipelines. any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and co 2 transportation activities-such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems-that could result in substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 table of contents increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. primarily, through our regulated pipeline subsidiaries, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines for the u.s. dot and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of the compliance costs are pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the u.s. dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade or result in the forfeiture of our vessels otherwise adversely impact our income and operations. following our january 2014 acquisition of american petroleum tankers and state class tankers, we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and manned by predominately u.s. crews. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could by adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. 43 table of contents we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. in addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. due to the rise of oil and gas production in new areas of the country and increased public scrutiny of fracturing and other practices in oil and gas drilling, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the epa regulates the greenhouse gas emissions and requires the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. for emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated ngl, and the production of naturally occurring co 2 , like our mcelmo dome co 2 field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our natural gas pipelines segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact kmp's and epb's revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on their natural gas pipelines. the natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of natural gas from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise 44 table of contents restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. we may face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business. kmp, epb and our other pipelines regularly undertake major construction projects to expand their existing assets and to construct new assets. a variety of factors outside of their control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. we must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. we obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land for a period of time. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. whether kmp, epb or our other pipelines have the power of eminent domain for their pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2 or crude oil and the laws of the particular state. our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our subsidiaries' business if they were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which pipelines are located. kmp's and epb's acquisition strategies and expansion programs require access to new capital. limitations on their access to capital would impair our ability to grow. consistent with the terms of kmp's and epb's partnership agreements, kmp and epb distribute most of the cash generated by their operations. as a result, they have relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisition and growth capital expenditures. however, to the extent our limited partnerships are unable to continue to finance growth externally; their cash distribution policy will significantly impair their ability to grow. kmp and/or epb may need new capital to finance these activities. limitations on access to capital, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, will impair their ability to execute this strategy. kmp's and epb's growth strategies may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations and they may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions. part of kmp's and epb's business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities. if they do not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, anticipated operating advantages and cost savings may not occur. the integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of 45 table of contents daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results. our limited partnerships may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon their ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, cost savings and other size-related benefits they expected may not be achieved, which could harm their financial condition and results of operations. our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $34 billion of consolidated debt (including kmp and epb, but excluding debt fair value adjustments). this level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions which may include reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2013, approximately $8 billion (25%) of our approximately $34 billion consolidated debt (including kmp and epb, but excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. there is the potential for a change of control of the general partners of kmp and epb if we default on debt . we own all of the common equity of the general partners of kmp and epb. if we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of the general partners of kmp and epb through their control of us. a change of control of the general partners of kmp and epb could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from kmp and epb, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for dividends to our stockholders. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing 46 table of contents our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt instruments, as well as the market value of kmp's and epb's common units. current or future distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide. some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. in addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. terrorist attacks or cyber security events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business . the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber security events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. the occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our pipelines business is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines. without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourages producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas. each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. throughput on kmp's and/or epb's pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions. over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand. the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel 47 table of contents conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products. the future success of kmp's oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within the co 2 -kmp business segment will decline. kmp may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if kmp does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. kmp's development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. the volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on the co 2 -kmp business segment. the revenues, profitability and future growth of the co 2 -kmp business segment and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices. for 2014, kmp estimates that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact the co 2 -kmp segment's cash flows by approximately $7 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond kmp's control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in kmp's revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, ngl, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of kmp's proved reserves. in the event prices fall substantially, kmp may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk. our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. 48 table of contents the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. the adoption of derivatives legislation by the u.s. congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the commodities futures trading commission, referred to as the cftc, and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. the cftc has proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. the dodd-frank act and any related regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the kinder morgan canada-kmp segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of the kinder morgan canada-kmp business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the u.s. and canada. volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and ngl will have a negative impact on the results of the co 2 -kmp business segment. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 49 table of contents hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. kmp's and epb's tax treatment depends on their status as partnerships for u.s. federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. if kmp and/or epb were treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes or if they were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then cash available for distribution to their partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. we own the general partner interests in both kmp and epb and approximately 11% and 41% of the limited partner interests of kmp and of epb, respectively. the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in kmp and epb depends largely on their treatment as partnerships for u.s. federal income tax purposes. neither kmp nor epb has requested nor plans to request a ruling from the irs on this or any other tax matter. despite the fact that kmp and epb are organized as limited partnerships under delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for partnerships such as kmp or epb to be treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although neither kmp nor epb believes, based on its current operations, that it is or will be so treated, the irs could disagree with the positions kmp or epb takes or a change in kmp's or epb's business (or a change in current law) could cause them to be treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject them to taxation as an entity. if they were treated as corporations for u.s. federal income tax purposes, they would pay u.s. federal income tax on taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates. distributions by kmp and epb to their partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of their current and accumulated earnings and profits) and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to their partners, including us. because tax would be imposed on kmp and epb as corporations, their after-tax cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the dividends we could pay and in the value of our common stock. the present u.s. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including kmp and epb, or an investment in them may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. moreover, from time to time, members of the u.s. congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing u.s. federal income tax laws that could affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. in addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. any state income taxes imposed upon kmp or epb as entities would reduce their cash available to be distributed to us. any modification to the u.s. federal income or state tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may be applied retroactively and could negatively impact the value of our investment in kmp and epb. kmp's and epb's partnership agreements provide that if a law is enacted that subjects them to corporate taxation or otherwise subjects them to entity-level taxation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amounts and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact. if kmp's or epb's unitholders remove their respective general partner, we would lose our general partner interest in either kmp or epb, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage them. we own the general partners of kmp and epb and with respect to kmp, all of the voting shares of kmr, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of kmp, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions. kmp's and epb's partnership agreements, however, give their respective unitholders the right to remove their general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2 3% of the respective partnership's outstanding units (including the common units, class b units and i-units, as applicable) voting as a single class vote for such removal; (ii) the holders of kmp's and epb's outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote, respectively; and 50 table of contents (iii) kmp and/ or epb receives opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause either kmp or epb or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. if kmp's or epb's unitholders removed their respective general partner, the general partner would lose its ability to manage kmp or epb, and with respect to kmp, the delegation of authority to kmr by kmp's general partner would terminate at the same time. the general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. while the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of kmp's and epb's partnership agreements to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest. if in the future kmr and the general partner cease to manage and control kmp, with respect to kmp and epb's general partner ceases to manage and control epb either limited partnership may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940. if our subsidiaries, kmr and kmgp, which is the general partner of kmp, cease to manage and control kmp, or, el paso pipeline gp, l.l.c. ceases to manage and control epb, either or both kmp and epb may be deemed to be investment companies under the investment company act of 1940. in that case, kmp and/or epb would either have to register as an investment company under the investment company act, obtain exemptive relief from the sec or modify their organizational structure or contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company. registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer, richard d. kinder, who is also one of our founders. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. risks related to the ownership of our common stock the price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments. the market price of the common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of kmp and epb, other companies comparable to us or kmp and epb or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general u.s. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts' interest in following our company. 51 table of contents non-u.s. holders of our common stock may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock. if we are or have been a 'u.s. real property holding corporation'' within the meaning of the code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-u.s. holder, or (ii) such holder's holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is 'regularly traded,'' as defined by applicable u.s. treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-u.s. holder may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above. we believe we are, or may become, a u.s. real property holding corporation. risks related to our dividend policy holders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all. our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes. however, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws and other factors. dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the sponsor investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future. the terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances. a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. the general partners of kmp and epb, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support kmp and epb that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends. we utilize kmp and epb as our vehicles for growth. we have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest. as the owner of the general partner of kmp, and now epb, we may take steps we judge beneficial to kmp's and epb's growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends. the board of directors of the general partner of kmp or epb may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per kmp or epb unit. for example, kmp's general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture and has agreed to waive its paid incentive distributions of $27 million and $4 million for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively, on common units issued to finance a portion of kmp's subsequent acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the kinderhawk joint venture. in addition, in connection with kmp's acquisition of copano, kmp's general partner has agreed to waive incentive distributions of $75 million for 2013, $120 million for both 2014 and 2015, $110 million for 2016 and annual amounts thereafter decreasing by $5 million per year from this level. our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the limited partnership level or impair our financial flexibility. if we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the limited partnership level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. in addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the limited partnership level, including through acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. we cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to 52 table of contents us at all, or at an acceptable cost. if we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends. all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. in addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as our limited partnerships, are not wholly owned by us. when funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us. a number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future. in addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization. the board of directors of kmr, which is the delegate of kmp's general partner, and epb's general partner have broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of their businesses. the establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions to us and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level. further, the calculation of kmp's and epb's available cash for distribution is discretionary and subject to the approval of the board of directors of kmr or epb's general partner, respectively taking into consideration their constituent agreements. similarly, while the constituent agreements of ngpl provide that it is the intention of ngpl to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of ngpl and do not control it. the same is true for joint ventures in which our limited partnerships own an interest. the distributions we receive from kmp are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest. the distributions we receive are not as large if kmp distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if kmp's general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock. if we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial. our ability to pay dividends is restricted by delaware law. under the dgcl, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the dgcl, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the dgcl. if, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result. this may in turn result in losses by our stockholders. risks related to conflicts of interest kmp, epb and their subsidiaries may compete with us. neither of kmp, epb or any of their subsidiaries or entities in which they own an interest is restricted from competing with us. kmr manages kmp (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of kmp's general partner) and epb's general partner manages epb, in what they consider to be the best interests of their respective limited partner interests. kmp, epb and their subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. among other things, we and our limited partnerships have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the limited partnership level only if kmp and epb elect not to pursue the opportunity. 53 table of contents many of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including kmr and epb, or entities in which we own an interest, such as ngpl, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future. many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, who is also a director or officer of ours, in making decisions in such person's capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accordance with his or her fiduciary duties to us. however, in making decisions in such person's capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment. further, the organizational documents of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us. in addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. there could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 93 energy commodity market risk 93 interest rate risk 95risk factors 27 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors, if applicable. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we operate the following reportable business segments. these segments and their principal sources of revenues are as follows: natural gas pipelines (i) the ownership and operation of major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) the ownership and/or operation of associated natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; and (iii) the ownership and/or operation of ngl fractionation facilities and transportation systems; co 2 (i) the production, transportation and marketing of co 2 to oil fields that use co 2 as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields to increase production; (ii) ownership interests in and/or operation of oil fields and gas processing plants in west texas; and (iii) the ownership and operation of a crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals (i) the ownership and/or operation of liquids and bulk terminal facilities and rail transloading and materials handling facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, condensate, and bulk products, including coal, petroleum coke, cement, alumina, salt and other bulk chemicals and (ii) the ownership and operation of our jones act tankers; products pipelines the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products and crude oil and condensate pipelines that deliver refined petroleum products (gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel), ngl, crude oil, condensate and bio-fuels to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; kinder morgan canada the ownership and operation of the trans mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from edmonton, alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, canada and the state of washington, plus the jet fuel aviation turbine fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver (canada) international airport; and other primarily includes other miscellaneous assets and liabilities purchased in our 2012 ep acquisition including (i) our corporate headquarters in houston, texas; (ii) several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities; and (iii) other miscellaneous ep assets and liabilities. natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. 12 table of contents our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) approximately 48,000 miles of natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 19,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng storage and regasification terminals also serve natural gas supply areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines segment assets, as of december 31, 2014. the design capacity represents either transmission or gathering capacity depending on the nature of the asset. ownership interest % miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) [storage (bcf)] capacity supply and market region natural gas pipelines tgp 100 11,900 9.00 [97] south texas and gulf of mexico to northeast and southeast u.s.; haynesville, marcellus, utica, and eagle ford shale formations epng/mojave pipeline system 100 10,700 5.65 [44] northern new mexico, texas, oklahoma, to california, connects to san juan, permian, and anadarko basins ngpl 20 9,200 6.20 [288] chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins sng 100 6,900 3.90 [68] texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee; basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) 50 5,300 3.60 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico cig 100 4,300 5.20 [43] colorado and wyoming; rocky mountains and the anadarko basin wic 100 850 3.90 wyoming, colorado, and utah; overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins ruby pipeline 50 680 1.50 wyoming to oregon; rocky mountain basins mep 50 510 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply basins to interconnects with deliveries to interconnects with transco, columbia gulf and various other pipelines cpg 100 410 1.20 colorado and kansas, natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area transcolorado gas 100 310 1.00 colorado and new mexico; connects to san juan, paradox and piceance basins wyco 50 224 1.20 [7] northeast colorado; connects with high plains elba express 100 200 0.95 georgia; connects to sng (georgia), transco (georgia/south carolina) and cgt (georgia). fep 50 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission, and anr pipeline company km louisiana 100 135 3.20 sources gas from cheniere sabine pass lng terminal to interconnects with columbia gulf, anr and various other pipelines sierrita pipeline 35 60 0.20 near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico border near sasabe, arizona; connects to epng and via a new international border crossing with a new natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage 48 17 [6] morgan county, colorado, capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities. keystone gas storage 100 12 [9] located in the permian basin and near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas. gulf lng holdings 50 5 [7] near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and natural gas processing plant bear creek storage 100 [59] 50% sng and 50% tgp 13 table of contents ownership interest % miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) [storage (bcf)] capacity supply and market region slng 100 [12] georgia; connects to elba express, sng and cgt elc 51 not in service until 2017 - 2018 midstream group km texas and tejas pipelines(a) 100 5,800 6.20 [120] texas gulf coast. mier-monterrey pipeline 100 95 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connects to pemex ng transportation system and a 1,000-megawatt power plant km north texas pipeline 100 80 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant copano oklahoma southern dome 70 0.03 propane refrigeration plant in the southern portion of oklahoma county copano oklahoma system 100 3,500 0.38 hunton dewatering, woodford shale, and mississippi lime copano south texas webb/duval gas gathering system 63 145 0.15 south texas copano south texas system 100 1,255 1.88 eagle ford shale formation, woodbine and eaglebine (texas) eaglehawk 25 860 1.00 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 100 790 0.08 utah, uinta basin red cedar 49 750 0.70 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field copano rocky mountain fort union 37 310 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn 51 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 100 500 2.00 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations copano north texas 100 400 0.14 north barnett shale combo endeavor 40 100 0.12 east texas, cotton valley sands and haynesville/ bossier shale horizontal well developments camino real - gas 100 70 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km treating 100 odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas (mbbl/d) copano liquids liberty pipeline 50 87 170 houston central complex to the texas gulf coast copano liquids assets 100 313 115 houston central complex to the texas gulf coast camino real - oil 100 70 110 south texas, eagle ford shale formation _______ competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. these operations compete with interstate and intrastate 14 table of contents pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other projects are proposed that would compete with us. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane and fuel oils. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete package of co 2 supply, transportation and technical expertise to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, include the following: km gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres(a) 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 sharon ridge 14 2,619 h.t. boyd(b) 21 n/a midcross 13 320 reinecke(c) 80 _______ (a) acquired june 1, 2013 (b) net profits interest (c) working interest less than 1 percent. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which we owned interests as of december 31, 2014. the oil and gas producing fields in which we own interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which we have a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by us: productive wells(a) service wells(b) drilling wells(c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,164 1,381 1,152 903 2 2 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,169 1,383 1,152 903 2 2 _______ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2014, we did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids and/or gases that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2014. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. 15 table of contents the following table reflects our net productive wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 productive development 83 51 59 exploratory 26 4 total productive 109 55 59 dry exploratory 1 total wells 110 55 59 _______ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that we held as of december 31, 2014: gross net developed acres 75,111 71,919 undeveloped acres 17,603 15,369 total 92,714 87,288 _______ note: as of december 31, 2014, we have no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see supplemental information on oil and gas activities (unaudited) for additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on our oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. the average net to us does not include the value associated with the net profits interest. 16 table of contents sales and transportation activities co 2 segment storage and sales our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain strong for the next several years. our ownership of co 2 reserves as of december 31, 2014 includes: ownership interest % recoverable co 2 (bcf) compression capacity (bcf/d) location recoverable co 2 mcelmo dome unit(a) 45 5,900 1.4 colorado st. johns co 2 source field and related assets(b) 100 1,660 0.3 apache county, arizona, and catron county, new mexico doe canyon deep unit(a) 87 832 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit 11 702 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we also operate. (b) compression installation planned for the fourth quarter of 2018. co 2 segment pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. the tariffs charged by our co 2 pipelines are not regulated; however, the tariff charged on the cortez pipeline is based on a consent decree. the tariffs charged on the wink pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission. our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2014 includes: ownership interest % miles of pipeline transport capacity(bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline 50 565 1.2 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 100 323 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline(a) 13 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline 98 162 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 100 112 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 100 91 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline 69 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit goldsmith landreth 99 3 0.2 goldsmith landreth san andres field in the permian basin of west texas (mbbl/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 100 453 145 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources, and oxy u.s.a., inc., which controls waste co 2 extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are 17 table of contents in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. terminals our terminals segment includes the operations of our petroleum, chemical, ethanol and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines segment) and all of our coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. our terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide us opportunities for expansion. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, we have jones act qualified product tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the u.s. the following summarizes our terminals segment assets, as of december 31, 2014: number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals 39 78.0 bulk terminals 78 n/a materials services locations 8 n/a jones act qualified tankers 7 2.3 competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in the u.s, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical and pipeline companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminal services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. our rail transloading (material services) operations compete with a variety of single- or multi-site transload, warehouse and terminal operators across the u.s. our jones act qualified product tankers compete with other jones act qualified vessel fleets. 18 table of contents products pipelines our products pipelines segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes our significant products pipelines segment assets we own and operate as of december 31, 2014: ownership interest % miles of pipeline number of terminals (a) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region plantation pipeline 51 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. west coast products pipelines(b) pacific (sfpp) 100 2,823 13 15.3 six western states calnev 100 570 2 2.1 colton, ca to las vegas, nv; mojave region west coast terminals 100 43 6 9.2 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas cochin pipeline 100 1,877 5 1.1 three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 100 252 2 1.2 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt county) to the houston ship channel refining complex central florida pipeline 100 206 2 2.5 tampa to orlando double eagle pipeline 50 194 0.4 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county parkway 50 140 interconnect at collins with plantation and plantation markets cypress pipeline 50 104 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana southeast terminals 100 28 9.1 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee kinder morgan assessment protocol (kmap) 100 pipeline integrity analysis protocol for km and outside customers transmix operations 100 6 1.5 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) our west coast products pipelines assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. competition our products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. our products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. kinder morgan canada our kinder morgan canada business segment includes our 100% owned and operated trans mountain pipeline system and a 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. the trans mountain pipeline is 713 miles in length. we also own and operate a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the 19 table of contents capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude oil percentage), to 400 mbbl/d with no heavy crude oil. jet fuel pipeline system we also own and operate the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15 mbbl. competition trans mountain is one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and it competes against other pipeline providers; however, it is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. furthermore, as demonstrated by our previously announced expansion proposal, discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments kinder morgan canada, we believe that the trans mountain pipeline facilities provide us the opportunity to execute on capacity expansions to the west coast as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in december 2013, the british columbia ministry of environment granted approval for a new, airport fuel consortium owned, jet fuel terminal to be located near the vancouver international airport. the impact of this facility on our existing jet fuel pipeline system is uncertain at this time. other during 2014, our other segment activity primarily includes other miscellaneous assets and liabilities purchased in our 2012 ep acquisition including (i) our corporate headquarters in houston, texas; (ii) several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with ep's legacy trading activities; and (iii) other miscellaneous ep assets and liabilities. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. our texas intrastate natural gas pipeline group buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 business segments in 2014, 2013 and 2012 accounted for 25%, 28% and 28%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of our natural gas purchases to our natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. 20 on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. our subsidiary trans mountain pipeline, l.p. is the sole owner of our trans mountain crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline system. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. for further information, see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations above. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates to meet competition, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to offer negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of a fixed rate during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, and while rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, the terms and conditions of pipeline transportation and storage services are not generally negotiable. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, through the mid-1990's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to create a more competitive environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; and order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage). the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information; (iv) independent functioning; (v) transparency; and (vi) the interaction of 21 ferc standards with the north american energy standards board business practice standards. the ferc also promulgates certain standards of conduct that apply uniformly to interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities. in light of the changing structure of the energy industry, these standards of conduct govern employee relationships-using a functional approach-to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis. pursuant to the ferc's standards of conduct, a natural gas transmission provider is prohibited from disclosing to a marketing function employee non-public information about the transmission system or a transmission customer. additionally, no-conduit provisions prohibit a transmission function provider from disclosing non-public information to marketing function employees by using a third party conduit. rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. texas railroad commission rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the texas railroad commission. the texas railroad commission has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulating commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulating commission (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2032. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitations (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to the amount of pipe determined 22 to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. these tests could result in significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the president signed into law new pipeline safety legislation in january 2012, the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few years. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of such pressures, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may precipitate claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. 23 the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the u.s. secretary of transportation the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $340 million as of december 31, 2014. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $340 million to approximately $514 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 16 litigation, environmental and other to our consolidated financial statements. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. 24 superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. we believe that the operations of our pipelines, storage facilities and terminals are in substantial compliance with such statutes. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain greenhouse gases including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to and in substantial compliance with these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting and permitting requirements. additionally, the epa has announced that it will propose new regulations of greenhouse gases addressing emission of greenhouse gases with a renewed focus on emissions of methane which may impose further requirements, including emission control requirements, on kinder morgan facilities. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for greenhouse gases that go beyond the requirements of the epa. depending on the particular program, we could be required to conduct monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital 25 expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,535 full-time people at december 31, 2014, including approximately 828 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2015 and 2018. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage 26 table of contents facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 15 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to our business our pipelines business is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines. without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as the recent sharp decline in crude oil prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas. each of these factors impacts our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. throughput on our crude oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions. over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand. 27 table of contents the implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products. we may face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to recontract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. our growth strategy may cause difficulties integrating acquisitions and constructing new facilities, and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions or expansions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities. if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. the integration of acquired companies or new assets involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions and expansions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, in connection with the merger transactions, we and substantially all of our wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a cross guarantee agreement whereby each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party to the agreement, thereby causing us to become liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, including the cross-guaranteed debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions, which may include reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 debt to our consolidated financial statements. 28 table of contents new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business regulation. the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and co 2 transportation activities-such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems-that could result in substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines for the dot and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a 29 table of contents significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state or provincial laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters. 30 table of contents climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. the epa regulates greenhouse gas emissions and requires the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. for emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated ngl, and the production of naturally occurring co 2 , like our mcelmo dome co 2 field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our natural gas pipelines segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters climate change. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures' natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. our acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. limitations on our access to capital would impair our ability to grow. we rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisition and growth capital expenditures. however, to the extent we are unable to continue to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. we may need new capital to finance these activities. limitations on our access to capital, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, will impair our ability to execute this strategy. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2014, approximately $11 billion of our approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. 31 table of contents should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities. cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. we must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. we obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land for a period of time. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2, or crude oil-and the laws of the particular state. our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which our pipelines are located. current or future distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide. some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows. furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more 32 table of contents of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. in addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the u.s. and canada. volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and ngl will have a negative impact on the results of our co 2 business segment. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. terrorist attacks or cyber security events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber security events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. the occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within our co 2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a 33 table of contents productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our co 2 and natural gas pipeline business segments. the revenues, profitability and future growth of our co 2 and natural gas pipeline business segments and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices. for 2015, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $10 million and each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $3 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, ngl, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our proved reserves. in the event prices fall substantially, we may not be able to realize a profit from our production and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk energy commodity market risk. our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities and note 13 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. the adoption of derivatives legislation by the u.s. congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. the cftc has proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. the dodd-frank act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments 34 table of contents to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us. the dodd-frank act and any related regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade or result in the forfeiture of our vessels otherwise adversely impact our income and operations. following our 2014 acquisitions of american petroleum tankers, state class tankers, and the pennsylvania and florida jones act tankers from crowley maritime corporation tankers, we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and manned by predominately u.s. crews. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of such workforce could result in the failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals. if we are unable to retain our chairman or executive officers, our growth may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our chairman and our executive officers, particularly our chairman and current chief executive officer, richard d. kinder, who is also one of our founders, and our current president and chief operating officer, steve kean, who will assume the chief executive officer position in june of 2015. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder and mr. kean have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our kinder morgan canada segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of our kinder morgan canada business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. 35 table of contents risks related to the ownership of our common stock the price of our common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments. the market price of our common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it due to fluctuations in its market price, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for our common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other companies comparable to us or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general u.s. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; and (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders. non-u.s. holders of our common stock may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock. if we are or have been a u.s. real property holding corporation'' within the meaning of the code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-u.s. holder or (ii) such holder's holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is regularly traded,'' as defined by applicable u.s. treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-u.s. holder may be subject to u.s. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above. we believe we are, or may become, a u.s. real property holding corporation. the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere our expected cash dividends. this reflects our current judgment, but as with any estimate, it may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements. if the payment of dividends at the anticipated level would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business would be harmed. conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated level. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, might have to choose between addressing those matters or reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because there is nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements that prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, our board of directors may choose to cause us to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed above under -risks related to our business- our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic consequences . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 energy commodity market risk 67 interest rate risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we take steps to hedge, or limit our exposure to, these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we use include energy products traded on the nymex and otc markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. 67 table of contents as part of the ep acquisition, we acquired power forward and swap contracts. we have entered into offsetting positions that eliminate the price risks associated with our power contracts. none of these derivatives are designated as accounting hedges. fundamentally, our hedging strategy involves taking a simultaneous financial position in the futures market that is equal and opposite to our physical position, or anticipated position, in the cash market (or physical product) in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. a hedge is successful to the extent gains or losses in the cash market are neutralized by losses or gains in the futures transaction. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating bank of america / merrill lynch a- j. aron &amp; company / goldman sachs a- j.p. morgan a morgan stanley a- macquarie bbb _______ as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. cash flow hedges are defined as hedges made with the intention of decreasing the variability in cash flows related to future transactions, as opposed to the value of an asset, liability or firm commitment, and we are allowed special hedge accounting treatment for such derivative contracts. in accounting for cash flow hedges, gains and losses on the derivative contracts are reported in other comprehensive income, outside net income reported in our consolidated statements of income, but only to the extent that the gains and losses from the change in value of the derivative contracts can later offset the loss or gain from the change in value of the hedged future cash flows during the period in which the hedged cash flows affect net income. that is, for cash flow hedges, all effective components of the derivative contracts' gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income, pending occurrence of the expected transaction. other comprehensive income consists of those financial items that are within accumulated other comprehensive loss in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets but not included in our net income (portions attributable to our noncontrolling interests are within noncontrolling interests and are not included in our net income). thus, in highly effective cash flow hedges, where there is no ineffectiveness, other comprehensive income changes by exactly as much as the derivative contracts and there is no impact on earnings until the expected transaction occurs. all remaining gains and losses on the derivative contracts (the ineffective portion and those contracts not designated as hedges) are included in current net income. the ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative contracts is the difference between the gain or loss from the change in value of the derivative contract and the effective portion of that gain or loss. in addition, when the hedged forecasted transaction does take place and affects earnings, the effective part of the hedge is also recognized in the income statement, and the earlier recognized effective amounts are removed from accumulated other comprehensive loss (and noncontrolling interests ) and are transferred to the income statement as well, effectively offsetting the changes in cash flows stemming from the hedged risk. if the forecasted transaction results in an asset or liability, amounts 68 table of contents should be reclassified into earnings when the asset or liability affects earnings through cost of sales, depreciation, interest expense, etc. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, ngl, crude oil and power derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity natural gas prices would affect the estimated fair value of natural gas derivatives by $9 million and $15 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity crude oil prices would affect the estimated fair value of crude oil derivative by $146 million and $201 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity ngl prices would affect the estimated fair value of our ngl derivatives by $0.3 million and $5 million , respectively. as of both december 31, 2014 and 2013, a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity electricity prices would not affect the estimated fair value of our power derivatives. as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the natural gas, ngl, crude oil and power portfolios of derivative contracts (including commodity futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps) assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt until we would be required to refinance such debt. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, the carrying values of the fixed rate debt (including the debt fair value adjustments) were $41,538 million and $33,129 million , respectively. these amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, fair values of $42,164 million and $33,185 million , respectively. fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flow discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt for 2014 and 2013, would result in changes of approximately $1,539 million and $1,185 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. the carrying value of the variable rate debt (which approximates the fair value), excluding the value of interest rate swap agreements (discussed following), was $1,425 million and $3,064 million as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 we were party to interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts of $9,200 million and $5,400 million , respectively. an interest rate swap agreement is a contractual agreement entered into between two counterparties under which each agrees to make periodic interest payments to the other for an agreed period of time based upon a predetermined amount of principal, which is called the notional principal amount. normally at each payment or settlement date, the party who owes more pays the net amount; so at any given settlement date only one party actually makes a payment. the principal amount is notional because there is no need to exchange actual amounts of principal. a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 50 basis points in 2014 and approximately 51 basis points in 2013) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $53 million and $43 million , respectively, in our 2014 and 2013 annual pre-tax earnings. 69 table of contents interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of transforming a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 26% is variable rate debt. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 13 risk management to our consolidated financial statements.risk factors 27 risk factors. dividend announcement refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for a discussion regarding the reduction in our dividend announced in december 2015 to an expected $0.50 per share on an annualized basis. 2016 outlook we expect to declare dividends of $0.50 per share for 2016, generate approximately $4.9 billion of distributable cash flow available to equity and approximately $4.7 billion of distributable cash flow available to common shareholders (i.e. after payment of preferred dividends) and generate approximately $3.6 billion of cash flow in excess of our dividend. these expectations assume an average 2016 wti crude oil price of $38 per barrel, an average 2016 henry hub natural gas price of $2.50 per mmbtu and interest rates consistent with the current forward curve at the time that our 2016 budget was prepared. the overwhelming majority of cash we generate is fee-based and therefore is not directly exposed to commodity prices. the primary area where we have direct commodity price sensitivity is in our co 2 segment, where we hedge the majority of the next 12 months of oil production to minimize this sensitivity. for 2016, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $6.5 million and each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $0.6 million, and every 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average ngl price per barrel to the wti crude oil price per barrel impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $2.0 million. these sensitivities compare to total anticipated segment earnings before dd&amp;a in 2016 of approximately $8 billion (adding back our share of joint venture dd&amp;a). 10 we expect that a full-year of contributions from our 2015 acquisitions and expansions along with partial-year contributions from our anticipated 2016 expansion investments, as described above under recent developments , will generate incremental earnings and cash flow from our assets in 2016 and beyond. generally, our base cash flows (that is, cash flows not attributable to acquisitions or expansions) are relatively stable from year to year and are largely supported by multi-year, fee-based customer arrangements. in addition, our expectations for 2016 discussed above involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and are not guarantees of performance. many of the factors that will determine these expectations are beyond our ability to control or predict, and because of these uncertainties, it is advisable to not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. please read our item 1a risk factors below for more information. furthermore, we plan to provide updates to our 2016 expectations when we believe previously disclosed expectations no longer have a reasonable basis. (b) financial information about segments for financial information on our six reportable business segments, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (c) narrative description of business business strategy our business strategy is to: focus on stable, fee-based energy transportation and storage assets that are central to the energy infrastructure of growing markets within north america; increase utilization of our existing assets while controlling costs, operating safely, and employing environmentally sound operating practices; leverage economies of scale from incremental acquisitions and expansions of assets that fit within our strategy and are accretive to cash flow; and maintain a strong balance sheet and return value to our stockholders. it is our intention to carry out the above business strategy, modified as necessary to reflect changing economic conditions and other circumstances. however, as discussed under item 1a. risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions and are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors, if applicable. while there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we operate the following reportable business segments. these segments and their principal sources of revenues are as follows: natural gas pipelines the ownership and operation of (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; (iii) ngl fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) lng facilities; co 2 (i) the production, transportation and marketing of co 2 to oil fields that use co 2 as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields to increase production; (ii) ownership interests in and/or operation of oil fields and gas processing plants in west texas; and (iii) the ownership and operation of a crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals (i) the ownership and/or operation of liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, condensate, and bulk products, including coal, petroleum coke, cement, alumina, salt and other bulk chemicals and (ii) the ownership and operation of our jones act tankers; 11 products pipelines the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products and crude oil and condensate pipelines that deliver refined petroleum products (gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel), ngl, crude oil, condensate and bio-fuels to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; kinder morgan canada the ownership and operation of the trans mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from edmonton, alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, canada and the state of washington, plus the jet fuel aviation turbine fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver (canada) international airport; and other primarily other miscellaneous assets and liabilities including (i) our corporate headquarters in houston, texas; (ii) several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with legacy trading activities; and (iii) other miscellaneous legacy assets and liabilities. natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) approximately 52,000 miles of natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 19,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng storage and regasification terminals also serve natural gas supply areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines segment assets, as of december 31, 2015 . the design capacity represents either transmission, gathering or liquefaction capacity depending on the nature of the asset. ownership interest % miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) [storage (bcf)] capacity supply and market region natural gas pipelines tgp 100 11,800 9.74 [99] south texas and gulf of mexico to northeast and southeast u.s.; haynesville, marcellus, utica, and eagle ford shale formations epng/mojave pipeline system 100 10,700 5.65 [44] northern new mexico, texas, oklahoma, to california, connects to san juan, permian, and anadarko basins ngpl 50 9,100 6.20 [288] chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins sng 100 6,900 3.90 [68] louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee; basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) 50 5,300 3.60 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico cig 100 4,300 5.15 [43] colorado and wyoming; rocky mountains and the anadarko basin wic 100 850 3.88 wyoming, colorado, and utah; overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins ruby pipeline 50 680 1.53 wyoming to oregon; rocky mountain basins mep 50 510 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply basins to interconnects with deliveries to interconnects with transco, columbia gulf and various other pipelines cpg 100 410 1.20 colorado and kansas, natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area transcolorado gas 100 310 0.98 colorado and new mexico; connects to san juan, paradox and piceance basins wyco 50 224 1.20 [7] northeast colorado; interconnects with cig, wic, rockies express pipeline, young gas storage and psco's pipeline system 12 ownership interest % miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) [storage (bcf)] capacity supply and market region elba express 100 200 0.95 georgia; connects to sng (georgia), transco (georgia/south carolina), slng (georgia) and cgt (georgia). fep 50 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission, and anr pipeline company kmlp 100 135 2.20 sources gas from cheniere sabine pass lng terminal to interconnects with columbia gulf, anr and various other pipelines sierrita gas pipeline llc 35 61 0.20 near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico border near sasabe, arizona; connects to epng and via a new international border crossing with a new natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage 48 16 [6] morgan county, colorado, capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities. keystone gas storage 100 12 [6] located in the permian basin and near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas. gulf lng holdings 50 5 [6.6] near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and natural gas processing plant. bear creek storage 100 [59] located in louisiana; provides storage capacity to sng and tgp. slng 100 [11.5] georgia; connects to elba express, sng and cgt elc 100 0.35 georgia; not in service until 2018 midstream assets km texas and tejas pipelines 100 5,600 6.20 [124] texas gulf coast. mier-monterrey pipeline 100 87 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connects to pemex ng transportation system and a 1,000-megawatt power plant km north texas pipeline 100 82 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant oklahoma southern dome 73 0.03 propane refrigeration plant in the southern portion of oklahoma county oklahoma system 100 3,600 0.38 hunton dewatering, woodford shale, and mississippi lime south texas webb/duval gas gathering system 63 145 0.15 south texas south texas system 100 1,300 1.88 eagle ford shale formation, woodbine and eaglebine (texas) eaglehawk 25 860 1.20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 100 1,200 0.08 utah, uinta basin red cedar 49 740 0.70 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field rocky mountain fort union 37 310 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn 51 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 100 500 2.00 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations north texas 100 400 0.14 north barnett shale combo endeavor 40 100 0.12 east texas, cotton valley sands and haynesville/ bossier shale horizontal well developments camino real - gas 100 70 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km treating 100 odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas 13 ownership interest % miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) [storage (bcf)] capacity supply and market region hiland williston - gas 100 2,000 0.31 bakken shale formation (north dakota) midcontinent 100 690 0.23 woodford shale, anadarko basin and arkoma basin (mbbl/d) liquids liberty pipeline 50 87 170 houston central complex to the texas gulf coast liquids assets 100 345 115 houston central complex to the texas gulf coast camino real - oil 100 68 110 south texas, eagle ford shale formation williston - oil 100 1,400 266 bakken shale formation (north dakota) competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. our operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other projects are proposed that would compete with us. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane and fuel oils. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete package of co 2 supply, transportation and technical expertise to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. 14 oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, include the following: km gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres(a) 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 sharon ridge 14 2,619 tall cotton (roz) 100 461 h.t. boyd(b) 21 n/a midcross 13 320 reinecke(c) 80 _______ (a) acquired june 1, 2013 (b) net profits interest (c) working interest less than 1 percent. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which we owned interests as of december 31, 2015 . the oil and gas producing fields in which we own interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which we have a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by us: productive wells(a) service wells(b) drilling wells(c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,199 1,415 1,157 910 2 2 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,204 1,417 1,157 910 2 2 _______ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2015 , we did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids and/or gases that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2015 . a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects our net productive wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013: year ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 productive development 130 83 51 exploratory 31 26 4 total productive 161 109 55 dry exploratory 1 total wells 161 110 55 _______ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling operations were not completed as of the end of the applicable year. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. 15 the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that we held as of december 31, 2015: gross net developed acres 75,572 72,382 undeveloped acres 17,142 14,952 total 92,714 87,334 _______ note: as of december 31, 2015, we have no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. see supplemental information on oil and gas activities (unaudited) for additional information with respect to operating statistics and supplemental information on our oil and gas producing activities. gas and gasoline plant interests operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. the average net to us does not include the value associated with the net profits interest. sales and transportation activities co 2 segment storage and sales our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. our ownership of co 2 resources as of december 31, 2015 includes: ownership interest % recoverable co 2 (bcf) compression capacity (bcf/d) location recoverable co 2 mcelmo dome unit(a)(b) 45 4,758 1.5 colorado doe canyon deep unit(a) 87 569 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit 11 616 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we also operate. (b) recoverable co 2 estimate from currently approved projects only. co 2 segment pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. the tariffs charged on the wink pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission and the pecos carbon dioxide pipeline's tariffs are regulated by the texas railroad commission. the tariff charged on the cortez pipeline is based on a consent decree and the tariffs charged by our other co 2 pipelines are not regulated. 16 our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2015 includes: ownership interest % miles of pipeline transport capacity(bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline 50 565 1.3 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 100 324 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline(a) 13 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline 98 163 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 100 113 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 100 91 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline(b) 95 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit goldsmith landreth 99 3 0.2 goldsmith landreth san andres field in the permian basin of west texas (bbls/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 100 454 145,000 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. (b) acquired chevron's 26.01% partnership interest in december 2015. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources, and oxy u.s.a., inc., which controls waste co 2 extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. terminals our terminals segment includes the operations of our petroleum, chemical, ethanol and other liquids terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines segment) and all of our coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk material services facilities, including all transload, engineering, conveying and other in-plant services. our terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide expansion opportunities. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, we have jones act qualified product tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the u.s. the following summarizes our terminals segment assets, as of december 31, 2015 : number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals(a) 52 87.6 bulk terminals 59 n/a jones act qualified tankers 8 2.6 _______ (a) includes 10 terminals acquired in february 2016. competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in the u.s, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals 17 owned by oil, chemical and pipeline companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminal services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. our jones act qualified product tankers compete with other jones act qualified vessel fleets. products pipelines our products pipelines segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes our significant products pipelines segment assets we own and operate as of december 31, 2015 : ownership interest % miles of pipeline number of terminals (a)(c) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region plantation pipeline 51 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. west coast products pipelines(b) pacific (sfpp) 100 2,823 13 15.3 six western states calnev 100 570 2 2.1 colton, ca to las vegas, nv; mojave region west coast terminals 100 43 7 10.1 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas cochin pipeline 100 1,877 5 1.1 three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 100 252 5 2.6 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt county) to the houston ship channel refining complex double h pipeline 100 511 bakken shale in montana and north dakota to guernsey, wyoming central florida pipeline 100 206 3 3.1 tampa to orlando double eagle pipeline 50 194 2 0.6 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county parkway 50 140 interconnect at collins with plantation and plantation markets cypress pipeline 50 104 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana southeast terminals 100 32 10.8 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee transmix operations 100 6 1.5 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; indianola, pennsylvania; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) our west coast products pipelines assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. (c) includes 5 terminals acquired in february 2016. competition our products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. our products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. kinder morgan canada our kinder morgan canada business segment includes our 100% owned and operated trans mountain pipeline system and a 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. 18 trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. the trans mountain pipeline is 713 miles in length. we also own and operate a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude oil percentage), to 400 mbbl/d with no heavy crude oil. jet fuel pipeline system we also own and operate the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15 mbbl. competition trans mountain is one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and it competes against other pipeline providers; however, it is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. furthermore, as demonstrated by our previously announced expansion proposal, discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments kinder morgan canada, we believe that the trans mountain pipeline facilities provide us the opportunity to execute on capacity expansions to the west coast as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in december 2013, the british columbia ministry of environment granted approval for a new, airport fuel consortium owned, jet fuel terminal to be located near the vancouver international airport. the impact of this facility on our existing jet fuel pipeline system is uncertain at this time. other during 2015 , our other segment activity primarily includes other miscellaneous assets and liabilities including (i) our corporate headquarters in houston, texas; (ii) several physical natural gas contracts with power plants associated with legacy trading activities; and (iii) other miscellaneous legacy assets and liabilities. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. our texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations (includes the operations of kinder morgan tejas pipeline llc, kinder morgan border pipeline llc, kinder morgan texas pipeline llc, kinder morgan north texas pipeline llc and the mier-monterrey mexico pipeline system) buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 business segments in 2015, 2014 and 2013 accounted for 20%, 25% and 28%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of our natural gas purchases to our natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness 19 of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. on october 24, 1992, congress passed the energy policy act of 1992. the energy policy act deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. our subsidiary trans mountain pipeline, l.p. is the sole owner of our trans mountain crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline system. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. for further information, see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations above. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to charge negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of agreed upon rates during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, but while the rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, pipelines must generally use the form of service agreement that is contained within their ferc approved tariff. any deviation from the pro forma service agreements must be filed with the ferc and only certain types of deviations are acceptable to the ferc. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to ensure that interstate natural gas pipelines operated on a not unduly discriminatory basis and to create a more competitive and transparent environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; order nos. 587, et seq., order no. 809 (1996-2015) which adopt regulations to standardize the business practices and communication methodologies of interstate natural gas pipelines to create a more integrated and efficient pipeline grid and wherein the commission has incorporated by reference in its regulations standards for interstate natural gas 20 pipeline business practices and electronic communications that were developed and adopted by the north american energy standards board (naesb). interstate natural gas pipelines are required to incorporate by reference or verbatim in their respective tariffs the applicable version of the naesb standards; order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage); order no. 637 (2000) which revised, among other things, ferc regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, and pipeline penalties in order to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the interstate pipeline grid; and order no. 717 (2008) amending the standards of conduct for transmission providers (the standards of conduct or the standards) to make them clearer and to refocus the marketing affiliate rules on the areas where there is the greatest potential for abuse. the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues with respect to the actions and operations of interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities using a functional approach to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information and non-disclosure requirements regarding non-public information; (iv) independent functioning and no conduit requirements; (v) transparency requirements; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the naesb business practice standards. the standards of conduct rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. railroad commission of texas (rct) rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil and liquids pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the rct. the rct has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulatory commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulating commission (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2026. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitations (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical 21 studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. these tests could result in significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which was signed into law in 2012, increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few years. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the advisory bulletin requirements, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may precipitate claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock and under certain circumstances, consistent with our certificate of incorporation, 22 we have the right to redeem shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the u.s. secretary of transportation the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $284 million as of december 31, 2015. our reserve estimates range in value from approximately $284 million to approximately $457 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. 23 hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. epa revisions to ozone national ambient air quality standard (naaqs) as required by the clean air act, epa establishes national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for how much pollution is permissible and then the states have to adopt rules so their air quality meets the naaqs. in october 2015, epa published a rule lowering the ground level ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to a more stringent 70 ppb standard. this change triggers a process under which epa will designate the areas of the country that are in or out of attainment with the new naaqs standard. then, certain states will have to adopt more stringent air quality regulations to meet the naaqs standard. these new state rules, which are expected in 2020 or 2021, will likely require the installation of more stringent air pollution controls on newly installed equipment and possibly require retrofitting existing km facilities with air pollution controls. given the nationwide implications of the new rule, it is expected that it will have financial impacts for each kinder morgan business unit. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control 24 greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain greenhouse gases including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting and permitting requirements. additionally, in september 2015, the epa published a proposed rule regarding the oil and natural gas sector: emission standards for new and modified sources, otherwise known as the proposed new source performance standard (nsps) part ooooa rule. if finalized, this rule would be the first federal rule under the clean air act to regulate methane as a pollutant and would impose additional pollution control and work practice requirements on applicable kinder morgan facilities. on october 23, 2015, the epa published as a final rule the clean power plan, which sets interim and final co2 emission performance rates for power generating units that fire coal, oil or natural gas. the final rule is the focus of legislative discussion in the u.s. congress and litigation in federal court. on february 10, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved. the ultimate resolution of the final rule's validity remains uncertain. while we do not operate power plants that would be subject to the clean power plan final rule, it remains unclear what effect the final rule, if it comes into force, might have on the anticipated demand for natural gas, including natural gas that we gather, process, store and transport. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for greenhouse gases that go beyond the requirements of the epa. depending on the particular program, we could be required to conduct monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries' pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies, and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives such as the proposed clean power plan could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 25 department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,290 full-time people at december 31, 2015 , including approximately 787 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2016 and 2018. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by us and a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. 26 (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to operating our business our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities that we handle. our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for oil, natural gas, coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as the sharp decline in crude oil prices that began in 2014, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal and other products. each of these factors impacts our customers shipping through our pipelines or using our terminals, which in turn could impact the prospects of new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts. implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could reduce production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil, refined petroleum products, coal and other hydrocarbons, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil refined petroleum products and other hydrocarbons. financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. we are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. some of these counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating, market and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. in 2015, several of our counterparties defaulted on their obligations to us, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection. we cannot provide any assurance that other financially distressed counterparties will not also default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. if a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts that they owe to us. additional counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. furthermore, in the case of 27 financially distressed customers, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. see -financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. see -the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our co2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipeline and products pipelines business segments. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way, public opposition, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals that can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in our ability to begin construction projects. inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. additionally, we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land. if we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas, co2, or crude oil-and the laws of the particular state. our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority. in either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy any of the properties on which our pipelines are located. the acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. we may experience difficulties integrat ing new properties and businesses, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; and (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. 28 we face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems. several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to transportation and storage of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, co2, coal, chemicals and other products -such as leaks, releases, explosions, mechanical problems and damage caused by third parties. additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and cash flows while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. the revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, natural gas and ngl prices. our co2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our natural gas pipelines segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our product pipelines segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. for 2016, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $6.5 million and each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $0.6 million, and every 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average ngl price per barrel to the wti crude oil price per barrel impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $2.0 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. we use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. please read - our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, ngl, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our co2 business segment's proved reserves. if prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively 29 short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk. the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our co2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. as our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. to the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that eliminate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting policies and estimates-hedging activities and note 13 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. terrorist attacks or cyber security events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber security events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. a cyber security event could affect our ability to operate or control our facilities or disrupt our operations; also, customer information could be stolen. the occurrence of one of these events could 30 cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and the loss of such workforce could result in the failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals. if we are unable to retain our executive chairman or executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive chairman and our executive officers, particularly richard d. kinder, our executive chairman and one of our founders, and steve kean, our president and chief executive officer. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder and mr. kean have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our kinder morgan canada and terminals segments are subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of our kinder morgan canada business segments, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. 31 our ability to service our consolidated debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities and reducing our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities. also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our acquisition strategy and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. we have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2015, approximately $11 billion of our approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-interest rate risk. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. risks related to ownership of our capital stock the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock and on our preferred stock (or depositary shares). this reflects our current judgment, but as with any estimate, it may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements. if the payment of dividends at the anticipated levels would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely 32 advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business would be harmed. conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, might have to choose between addressing those matters and reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, our board of directors may choose to cause us to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed below under -risks related to financing our business-our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic consequences. our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-u.s. citizens within the meaning of the jones act. these restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-u.s. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. the jones act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by u.s. citizens, as defined under the jones act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade. as a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a u.s. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to 22%. these redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the united states. further, stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. in addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-u.s. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders. risks related to regulation new regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-regulation. the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in 33 question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state or provincial laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the dot for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause 34 us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases such as methane and co2, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. existing epa regulations require us to report greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated ngl, and production of naturally occurring co2 (for example, from our mcelmo dome co2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. proposed approaches to further regulate greenhouse gas emissions include establishing greenhouse gas cap and trade programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to greenhouse gases, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. finally, some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. we gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or ngl from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or ngl and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations 35 regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. the cftc has proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided. the dodd-frank act, related regulations and the reduction in competition due to derivatives industry consolidation have (i) significantly increased the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduced the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduced the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our u.s. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or a repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and manned by predominately u.s. crews. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 energy commodity market risk 69 interest rate risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we manage these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we use include energy products traded on the nymex and otc markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. in addition, we have power forward and swap contracts related to legacy operations of acquired businesses for which we entered into positions that offset the price risks associated with these contracts. our hedging strategy involves entering into a financial position intended to offset our physical position, or anticipated position, in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating bank of america / merrill lynch bbb+ societe generale a macquarie bbb j.p. morgan a- j aron / goldman sachs bbb+ as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, ngl, crude oil and power derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity natural gas prices would affect the estimated fair value of natural gas derivatives by $13 million and $9 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , a hypothetical 10% movement in 69 underlying commodity crude oil prices would affect the estimated fair value of crude oil derivative by $97 million and $146 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity ngl prices would affect the estimated fair value of our ngl derivatives by $4 million and $0.3 million , respectively. as of both december 31, 2015 and 2014 , a hypothetical 10% movement in underlying commodity electricity prices would not affect the estimated fair value of our power derivatives. as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the natural gas, ngl, crude oil and power portfolios of derivative contracts assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, interest rate risk and changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt until we would be required to refinance such debt. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , the carrying values of the fixed rate debt were $43,039 million and $41,390 million , respectively. these amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , fair values of $37,329 million and $42,343 million , respectively. fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flow discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt for 2015 and 2014 , would result in changes of approximately $1,667 million and $1,539 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , the carrying values of our variable rate debt were $188 million and $1,424 million , respectively. these amounts compare to, as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, fair values of $152 million and $1,418 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 we were party to fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts of $11,000 million and $9,200 million , respectively. a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 49 basis points in 2015 and approximately 50 basis points in 2014 ) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $55 million and $53 million , respectively, in our 2015 and 2014 annual pre-tax earnings. fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of converting a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2015 , including debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps but excluding our debt fair value adjustments, approximately 27% of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. 70 foreign currency risk in connection with the issuance of our euro denominated senior notes in march 2015, we entered into $1,358 million of cross-currency swap agreements that effectively convert all of the fixed-rate euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to u.s. dollar denominated debt at fixed rates. these swaps eliminate the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency denominated debt.risk factors 24 risk factors. 2017 outlook we expect to declare dividends of $0.50 per share for 2017 and generate approximately $4.46 billion of distributable cash flow. we also expect to invest $3.2 billion on expansion projects during 2017 to be funded with internally generated cash flow without the need to access equity markets. our 2017 budget assumes a joint venture partner on our trans mountain expansion project and contributions from that partner to fund its share of expansion capital, but does not include any potential proceeds in excess of the partner's share of expansion capital to recognize the value created in developing the project to this stage. we are unable to provide budgeted net income attributable to common stockholders (the gaap financial measure most directly comparable to distributable cash flow) due to the inherent difficulty and impracticality of predicting certain amounts required by gaap, such as ineffectiveness on commodity, interest rate and foreign currency hedges, unrealized gains and losses on derivatives marked to market, and potential changes in estimates for certain contingent liabilities. these expectations assume an average 2017 wti crude oil price of $53 per barrel and an average 2017 henry hub natural gas price of $3 per mmbtu, which were consistent with the current forward curve at the time that our 2017 budget was prepared. the overwhelming majority of cash we generate is supported by multi-year fee-based customer arrangements and therefore is not directly exposed to commodity prices. the primary area where we have direct commodity price sensitivity is in our co 2 segment, where we hedge the majority of the next 12 months of oil production to minimize this sensitivity. for 2017, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $6 million and each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact distributable cash flow by approximately $1 million. in addition, our expectations for 2017 discussed above involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and are not guarantees of performance. many of the factors that will determine these expectations are beyond our ability to control or predict, and because of these uncertainties, it is advisable to not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. please read our item 1a risk factors below for more information. furthermore, we plan to provide updates to our 2017 expectations when we believe previously disclosed expectations no longer have a reasonable basis. 7 (b) financial information about segments for financial information on our five reportable business segments, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (c) narrative description of business business strategy our business strategy is to: focus on stable, fee-based energy transportation and storage assets that are central to the energy infrastructure of growing markets within north america; increase utilization of our existing assets while controlling costs, operating safely, and employing environmentally sound operating practices; leverage economies of scale from incremental acquisitions and expansions of assets that fit within our strategy and are accretive to cash flow; and maintain a strong balance sheet and return value to our stockholders. it is our intention to carry out the above business strategy, modified as necessary to reflect changing economic conditions and other circumstances. however, as discussed under item 1a. risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and full and partial divestitures, and we are currently contemplating potential transactions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors, if applicable. while there are currently no unannounced purchase or sale agreements for the acquisition or sale of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments we operate the following reportable business segments. these segments and their principal sources of revenues are as follows: natural gas pipelines the ownership and operation of (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; (iii) ngl fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) lng facilities; co 2 (i) the production, transportation and marketing of co 2 to oil fields that use co 2 as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields to increase production; (ii) ownership interests in and/or operation of oil fields and gas processing plants in west texas; and (iii) the ownership and operation of a crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals the ownership and/or operation of (i) liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, chemicals, and ethanol and bulk products, including coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel and ores and (ii) jones act tankers; products pipelines the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products, ngl and crude oil and condensate pipelines that primarily deliver, among other products, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, propane, crude oil and condensate to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; and kinder morgan canada the ownership and operation of the trans mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from edmonton, alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, canada and the state of washington, plus the jet fuel aviation turbine fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver (canada) international airport. natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. 8 our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas sales, transportation, storage, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) approximately 46,000 miles of natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 26,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng storage and regasification terminals also serve natural gas supply areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines segment assets, as of december 31, 2016 . the design capacity represents either transmission, gathering or liquefaction capacity depending on the nature of the asset. asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region natural gas pipelines tgp 11,800 10.23 104 north to south to gulf coast and u.s.-mexico border, southeast u.s.; haynesville, marcellus, utica, and eagle ford shale formations epng/mojave pipeline system 10,600 5.65 44 northern new mexico, texas, oklahoma, to california, connects to san juan, permian and anadarko basins ngpl (50%) 9,100 6.90 288 chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins; north to south for lng and to u.s.-mexico border sng (50%) 6,900 4.07 68 louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee; basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) (50%) 5,300 3.60 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico cig 4,350 5.15 37 colorado and wyoming; rocky mountains and the anadarko basin wic 850 3.88 wyoming, colorado and utah; overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins ruby pipeline (50%) 680 1.53 wyoming to oregon; rocky mountain basins mep (50%) 510 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply basins to interconnects with deliveries to interconnects with transco, columbia gulf and various other pipelines cpg 410 1.20 colorado and kansas, natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area transcolorado gas 310 0.98 colorado and new mexico; connects to san juan, paradox and piceance basins wyco (50%) 224 1.20 7 northeast colorado; interconnects with cig, wic, rockies express pipeline, young gas storage and psco's pipeline system elba express 200 0.95 georgia; connects to sng (georgia), transco (georgia/south carolina), slng (georgia) and cgt (georgia). fep (50%) 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission and anr pipeline company kmlp 135 2.20 sources gas from cheniere sabine pass lng terminal to interconnects with columbia gulf, anr and various other pipelines sierrita gas pipeline llc (35%) 61 0.20 near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico border near sasabe, arizona; connects to epng and via an international border crossing with a third-party natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage (48%) 16 6 morgan county, colorado, capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities keystone gas storage 12 6 located in the permian basin and near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas gulf lng holdings (50%) 5 6.6 near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and a natural gas processing plant bear creek storage (75%) 59 located in louisiana; provides storage capacity to sng and tgp 9 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region slng 11.5 georgia; connects to elba express, sng and cgt elc 0.35 georgia; expect phased in service from mid-2018 to early 2019 midstream natural gas assets km texas and tejas pipelines 5,650 6.40 136 [0.51] texas gulf coast mier-monterrey pipeline 90 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connect to cenegas national system and multiple power plants in monterrey km north texas pipeline 80 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant oklahoma oklahoma system 3,500 0.35 [0.15] hunton dewatering, woodford shale and mississippi lime hiland - midcontinent 622 0.20 woodford shale, anadarko basin and arkoma basin southern dome (73%) [0.02] currently idle cedar cove (70%) 89 0.03 [0.01] oklahoma stack, capacity excludes third-party offloads south texas south texas system 1,300 1.74 [1.06] eagle ford shale, woodbine and eaglebine formations webb/duval gas gathering system (63%) 145 0.15 south texas eaglehawk (25%) 590 1.20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 1,350 0.08 [0.08] utah, uinta basin red cedar (49%) 750 0.70 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field rocky mountain fort union (37%) 310 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn (51%) 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 500 2.00 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations north texas 550 0.14 [0.10] north barnett shale combo endeavor (40%) 101 0.15 east texas, cotton valley sands and haynesville/ bossier shale camino real 70 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km treating odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas hiland - williston 2,000 0.31 [0.20] bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) midstream liquids/oil/condensate pipelines (mbbl/d) (mbbl) liberty pipeline (50%) 87 170 y-grade pipeline from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast south texas ngl pipelines 340 115 ethane and propane pipelines from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast camino real - condensate 68 110 20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation hiland - williston - oil 1,480 240 bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) eaglehawk - condensate (25%) 410 220 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation 10 competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. our operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other projects are proposed that would compete with us. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane, fuel oils and renewables such as wind and solar. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete package of co 2 supply, transportation and technical expertise to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. sales and transportation activities our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. our ownership of co 2 resources as of december 31, 2016 includes: ownership interest % recoverable co 2 (bcf) compression capacity (bcf/d) location recoverable co 2 mcelmo dome unit(a) 45 4,570 1.5 colorado doe canyon deep unit(a) 87 420 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit 11 367 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we also operate this unit. co 2 segment pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. the tariffs charged on the wink pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission and the pecos carbon dioxide pipeline's tariffs are regulated by the texas railroad commission. the tariff charged on the cortez pipeline is based on a consent decree and the tariffs charged by our other co 2 pipelines are not regulated. 11 our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2016 includes: asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline transport capacity(bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline (50%) 569 1.5 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 334 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline (13%)(a) 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline (98%) 163 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 113 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 98 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline (95%) 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit goldsmith landreth (99%) 3 0.2 goldsmith landreth san andres field in the permian basin of west texas (bbls/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 457 145,000 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas, include the following: kmi gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 sharon ridge 14 2,619 tall cotton (roz) 100 641 midcross 13 320 reinecke(a) 80 _______ (a) working interest less than 1 percent. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which we owned interests as of december 31, 2016 . the oil and gas producing fields in which we own interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which we have a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by us: productive wells(a) service wells(b) drilling wells(c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,239 1,447 1,227 984 6 6 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,244 1,449 1,227 984 6 6 12 _______ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2016 , we did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids and/or gases that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2016 . a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects our net productive wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014: year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 productive development 40 87 84 exploratory 3 20 10 total productive 43 107 94 dry exploratory 1 total wells 43 107 95 _______ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling and completion operations were not finalized as of the end of the applicable year. a completed well refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil and gas. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. a dry hole is reflected once the well has been abandoned and reported to the appropriate governmental agency. prior year amounts have been adjusted to be consistent with the current period presentation. the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that we held as of december 31, 2016: gross net developed acres 75,752 72,561 undeveloped acres 17,282 15,093 total 93,034 87,654 _______ note: as of december 31, 2016, we have no material amount of acreage expiring in the next three years. our oil and gas producing activities are not significant and therefore, we do not include the supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities under accounting standards codification topic 932, extractive activities - oil and gas. gas and gasoline plant interests operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. the average net to us does not include the value associated with the net profits interest. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources, and oxy u.s.a., inc., which controls waste co 2 extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are 13 in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. terminals our terminals segment includes the operations of our refined petroleum product, crude oil, chemical, ethanol and other liquid terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines segment) and all of our coal, petroleum coke, fertilizer, steel, ores and other dry-bulk terminal facilities. our terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide expansion opportunities. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, terminals' marine operations include jones act qualified product tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined petroleum products in the u.s. the following summarizes our terminals segment assets, as of december 31, 2016 : number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals 51 85.2 bulk terminals 37 jones act tankers 12 4.0 competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in north america, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical, pipeline, and refining companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminaling services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. our jones act qualified product tankers compete with other jones act qualified vessel fleets. 14 products pipelines our products pipelines segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, our condensate processing facility and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes our significant products pipelines segment assets we own and operate as of december 31, 2016 : asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline number of terminals (a) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region plantation pipeline (51%) 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. west coast products pipelines(b) pacific (sfpp) 2,823 13 15.5 six western states calnev 570 2 2.1 colton, ca to las vegas, nv; mojave region west coast terminals 43 7 10.1 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas cochin pipeline 1,877 4 1.1 three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 252 5 2.6 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt, karnes, and gonzales counties) to the houston ship channel refining complex double h pipeline 511 bakken shale in montana and north dakota to guernsey, wyoming central florida pipeline 206 2 2.5 tampa to orlando double eagle pipeline (50%) 194 2 0.6 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county cypress pipeline (50%) 104 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana southeast terminals 32 10.8 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee km condensate processing facility 1 1.9 houston ship channel, galena park, texas transmix operations 5 1.0 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) our west coast products pipelines assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. competition our products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. our products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. kinder morgan canada our kinder morgan canada business segment includes our 100% owned and operated trans mountain pipeline system and a 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. the trans mountain pipeline is 713 miles in length. we also own and operate a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington. the 15 capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude oil percentage), to 400 mbbl/d with no heavy crude oil. jet fuel pipeline system we also own and operate the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15 mbbl. competition trans mountain is one of several pipeline alternatives for western canadian crude oil and refined petroleum production, and it competes against other pipeline providers; however, it is the sole pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast. furthermore, as demonstrated by our previously announced expansion proposal, discussed above in (a) general development of business recent developments kinder morgan canada, we believe that the trans mountain pipeline facilities provide us the opportunity to execute on capacity expansions to the west coast as the market for offshore exports continues to develop. in december 2013, the british columbia ministry of environment granted approval for a new, airport fuel consortium owned, jet fuel terminal to be located near the vancouver international airport. the impact of this facility on our existing jet fuel pipeline system is uncertain at this time. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. our texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations (includes the operations of kinder morgan tejas pipeline llc, kinder morgan border pipeline llc, kinder morgan texas pipeline llc, kinder morgan north texas pipeline llc and the mier-monterrey mexico pipeline system) buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 business segments in 2016, 2015 and 2014 accounted for 19%, 20% and 25%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of our natural gas purchases to our natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing gathering or transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. the energy policy act of 1992 deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. 16 certain rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. our subsidiary trans mountain pipeline, l.p. is the sole owner of our trans mountain crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline system. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. for further information, see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations above. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to charge negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of agreed upon rates during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, but while the rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, pipelines must generally use the form of service agreement that is contained within their ferc approved tariff. any deviation from the pro forma service agreements must be filed with the ferc and only certain types of deviations are acceptable to the ferc. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to ensure that interstate natural gas pipelines operated on a not unduly discriminatory basis and to create a more competitive and transparent environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; order nos. 587, et seq., order no. 809 (1996-2015) which adopt regulations to standardize the business practices and communication methodologies of interstate natural gas pipelines to create a more integrated and efficient pipeline grid and wherein the ferc has incorporated by reference in its regulations standards for interstate natural gas pipeline business practices and electronic communications that were developed and adopted by the north american energy standards board (naesb). interstate natural gas pipelines are required to incorporate by reference or verbatim in their respective tariffs the applicable version of the naesb standards; order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for the natural gas commodity, transportation and storage); 17 order no. 637 (2000) which revised, among other things, ferc regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, and pipeline penalties in order to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the interstate pipeline grid; and order no. 717 (2008) amending the standards of conduct for transmission providers (the standards of conduct or the standards) to make them clearer and to refocus the marketing affiliate rules on the areas where there is the greatest potential for abuse. the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues with respect to the actions and operations of interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities using a functional approach to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information and non-disclosure requirements regarding non-public information; (iv) independent functioning and no conduit requirements; (v) transparency requirements; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the naesb business practice standards. the standards of conduct rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. railroad commission of texas (rct) rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil and liquids pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the rct. the rct has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulatory commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulatory commission (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2026. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitations (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. mexico - nacional agency for industrial safety and environmental protection (asea) asea regulates environmental compliance and industrial and operational safety. the mier-monterrey pipeline must satisfy and maintain asea's requirements, including compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official mexican standards regarding safety, including a safety administration program. 18 safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. these tests could result in significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or pipes act of 2016 requires phmsa, among others, to set minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities and allows states to go above those standards for intrastate pipelines. the act also authorizes emergency order authority that is tailored to the pipeline sector, taking into account public health and safety, network, and customer impacts. the financial impact of these two requirements, if any, is unknown at this time. the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which was signed into law in 2012, increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few years. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the advisory bulletin requirements, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may precipitate claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. 19 we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock and under certain circumstances, consistent with our certificate of incorporation, we have the right to redeem shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the u.s. secretary of transportation the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $302 million as of december 31, 2016. our aggregate reserve estimate ranges in value from approximately $302 million to approximately $477 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify 20 any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. epa revisions to ozone national ambient air quality standard (naaqs) as required by the clean air act, epa establishes national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for how much pollution is permissible and then the states have to adopt rules so their air quality meets the naaqs. in october 2015, epa published a rule lowering the ground level ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to a more stringent 70 ppb standard. this change triggers a process under which epa will designate the areas of the country that are in or out of attainment with the new naaqs standard. then, certain states will have to adopt more stringent air quality regulations to meet the naaqs standard. these new state rules, which are expected in 2020 or 2021, will likely require the installation of more stringent air pollution controls on newly installed equipment and possibly require retrofitting existing kmi facilities with air pollution controls. given the nationwide implications of the new rule, it is expected that it will have financial impacts for each of our business units. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and 21 also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain greenhouse gases including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting and permitting requirements. additionally, in june 2016, the epa published a proposed rule regarding the oil and natural gas sector: emission standards for new and modified sources, otherwise known as the proposed new source performance standard (nsps) part ooooa rule. this rule is the first federal rule under the clean air act to regulate methane as a pollutant and would impose additional pollution control and work practice requirements on applicable kmi facilities. on october 23, 2015, the epa published as a final rule the clean power plan, which sets interim and final co 2 emission performance rates for power generating units that fire coal, oil or natural gas. the final rule is the focus of legislative discussion in the u.s. congress and litigation in federal court. on february 10, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved. the ultimate resolution of the final rule's validity remains uncertain. while we do not operate power plants that would be subject to the clean power plan final rule, it remains unclear what effect the final rule, if it comes into force, might have on the anticipated demand for natural gas, including natural gas that we gather, process, store and transport. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for greenhouse gases that go beyond the requirements of the epa. depending on the particular program, we could be required to conduct monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries' pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies, and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives such as the proposed clean power plan could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently 22 cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,121 full-time people at december 31, 2016 , including approximately 907 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2017 and 2022. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by us and a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. ( d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. 23 (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to operating our business our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities that we handle. our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for oil, natural gas, coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. trends in the business environment, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, higher development costs, or high feedstock prices that adversely impact demand, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal and other products. each of these factors impacts our customers shipping through our pipelines or using our terminals, which in turn could impact the prospects of new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts. implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could reduce production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil, refined petroleum products, coal and other hydrocarbons, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil, refined petroleum products and other products we handle. our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way, public opposition, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals that can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in our construction projects. inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. 24 we do not own substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located. if we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected. we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others. while our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2 , or crude oil and the laws of the particular state. in any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. if we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases. if we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and increase our costs. financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. we are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. some of these counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating, market and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. in the last two years, several of our counterparties defaulted on their obligations to us, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection. for more information regarding the impact to our operating results from customer bankruptcies, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-results of operations-segment earnings results-terminals. we cannot provide any assurance that other financially distressed counterparties will not also default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. if a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts that they owe to us. additional counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. furthermore, in the case of financially distressed customers, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. see the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipeline and products pipelines business segments. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. we may experience difficulties integrating new properties and businesses, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (ii) the diversion of 25 management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting and other systems; and (iv) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. we face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. to the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to transportation and storage of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, co 2 , coal, chemicals and other products -such as leaks, releases, explosions, mechanical problems and damage caused by third parties. additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and cash flows while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. the revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, natural gas and ngl prices. our co 2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our natural gas pipelines segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our product pipelines segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. for 2017, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $6 million, each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact distributable cash flow by approximately $1 million and each 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average ngl price per barrel to the wti crude oil price per barrel would impact distributable cash flow by approximately $3 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. we use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. please read our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. 26 a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, ngl, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our co 2 business segment's proved reserves. if prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk. the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our co 2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. as our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. to the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it is not possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that eliminate our exposure to commodity prices. our consolidated financial statements may 27 reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting policies and estimates-hedging activities and note 13 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. terrorist attacks or cyber security events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business or harm our business reputation. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber security events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. a cyber security event could affect our ability to operate or control our facilities or disrupt our operations; also, customer information could be stolen. the occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or harm our business reputation. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals. if we are unable to retain our executive chairman or other executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly richard d. kinder, our executive chairman and one of our founders, and steve kean, our president and chief executive officer. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder and mr. kean have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our kinder morgan canada and terminals segments are subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of our kinder morgan canada business segments, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. 28 risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $39 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or ebitda, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets, or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 8 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities and reduce our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities. also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our acquisition strategy and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. we have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2016, approximately $11 billion of our approximately $39 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-interest rate risk. 29 our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. risks related to ownership of our capital stock the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock and on our preferred stock (or depositary shares). this reflects our current judgment, but as with any estimate, it may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements. if we elect to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed above under risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-u.s. citizens within the meaning of the jones act. these restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-u.s. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. the jones act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by u.s. citizens, as defined under the jones act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade. as a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a u.s. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to 22%. these redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the u.s. further, stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. in addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-u.s. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders. risks related to regulation new laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. in addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the recent change in u.s. presidential administrations. it remains unclear specifically what the new administration may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state, provincial and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the integrity, 30 safety and security of facilities and operations; (vii) the acquisition of other businesses; (viii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (ix) reporting and information posting requirements; (x) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xi) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-regulation. the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act or analogous state or provincial laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several 31 liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the dot for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases such as methane and co 2 , including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. existing epa regulations require us to report greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated ngl, and production of naturally occurring co 2 (for example, from our mcelmo dome co 2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. proposed approaches to further regulate greenhouse gas emissions include establishing greenhouse gas cap and trade programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business-environmental matters-climate change. adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to greenhouse gases, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. finally, some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. 32 any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. we gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or ngl from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or ngl and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. in december 2016, the cftc re-proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided. the dodd-frank act, related regulations and the reduction in competition due to derivatives industry consolidation have (i) significantly increased the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduced the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduced the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. finally, the dodd-frank act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. our revenues and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our u.s. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or a repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and manned by predominately u.s. crews. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an 33 unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 energy commodity market risk 65 interest rate risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. 64 energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we manage these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we use include energy products traded on the nymex and otc markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. in addition, prior to may 2016, we had power forward and swap contracts related to legacy operations of acquired businesses. our hedging strategy involves entering into a financial position intended to offset our physical position, or anticipated position, in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating bank of america / merrill lynch bbb+ societe generale a j aron / goldman sachs bbb+ bank of nova scotia a+ j.p. morgan a- as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, ngl and crude oil derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying commodity prices would have the following effect on the associated derivative contracts' estimated fair value (in millions): as of december 31, commodity derivative 2016 2015 crude oil $ 117 $ 97 natural gas 16 13 ngl 11 4 total $ 144 $ 114 65 as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts' portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the natural gas, ngl and crude oil portfolios of derivative contracts assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt. we are generally subject to interest rate risk upon refinancing maturing debt. below are our debt balances and sensitivity to interest rates (in millions): december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 carrying value estimated fair value(c) carrying value estimated fair value(c) fixed rate debt(a) $ 38,861 $ 39,854 $ 43,039 $ 37,329 variable rate debt $ 1,189 $ 1,161 $ 188 $ 152 notional principal amount of fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements 9,775 11,000 debt subject to variable interest rates(b) $ 10,964 $ 11,188 _______ (a) a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, would result in changes of approximately $1,527 million and $1,667 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. (b) a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 50 basis points in 2016 and approximately 49 basis points in 2015) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $54 million and $55 million , respectively, in our 2016 and 2015 annual pre-tax earnings. (c) fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flows discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of converting a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2016 , including debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps but excluding our debt fair value adjustments, approximately 28% of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. 66 foreign currency risk in connection with the issuance of our euro denominated senior notes in march 2015, we entered into $1,358 million of cross-currency swap agreements that effectively convert all of our fixed rate euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to u.s. dollar denominated debt at fixed rates. these swaps eliminate the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency denominated debt.risk factors 24 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and full and partial divestitures, and we are currently contemplating potential transactions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors, if applicable. while there are currently no unannounced purchase or sale agreements for the acquisition or sale of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. 8 business segments we operate the following reportable business segments. these segments and their principal sources of revenues are as follows: natural gas pipelines the ownership and operation of (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; (iii) ngl fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) lng facilities; co 2 (i) the production, transportation and marketing of co 2 to oil fields that use co 2 as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields to increase production; (ii) ownership interests in and/or operation of oil fields and gas processing plants in west texas; and (iii) the ownership and operation of a crude oil pipeline system in west texas; terminals the ownership and/or operation of (i) liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, chemicals, and ethanol and bulk products, including petroleum coke, steel and coal; and (ii) jones act tankers; products pipelines the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products, ngl and crude oil and condensate pipelines that primarily deliver, among other products, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, propane, ethane, crude oil and condensate to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; and kinder morgan canada the ownership and operation of the trans mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from edmonton, alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, canada and the state of washington, plus the jet fuel aviation turbine fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver (canada) international airport. natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our primary businesses in this segment consist of transportation, storage, natural gas sales, gathering, processing and treating, and the terminaling of lng. within this segment, are: (i) approximately 46,000 miles of wholly owned natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 26,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng storage and regasification terminals also serve natural gas supply areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines segment assets, as of december 31, 2017 . the design capacity represents either transmission, gathering or liquefaction capacity depending on the nature of the asset. asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region natural gas pipelines tgp 11,750 12.00 106 north to south to gulf coast and u.s.-mexico border, southeast u.s.; haynesville, marcellus, utica, and eagle ford shale formations epng/mojave pipeline system 10,600 5.65 44 northern new mexico, texas, oklahoma, to california, connects to san juan, permian and anadarko basins ngpl (50%) 9,100 7.60 288 chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins; north to south for lng and to u.s.-mexico border sng (50%) 6,900 4.16 68 louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee; basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) (50%) 5,300 3.60 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico cig 4,350 5.15 37 colorado and wyoming; rocky mountains and the anadarko basin 9 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region wic 850 3.88 wyoming, colorado and utah; overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins ruby (50%)(a) 680 1.53 wyoming to oregon with interconnects supplying california and the pacific northwest; rocky mountain basins mep (50%) 510 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply basins to interconnects with deliveries to interconnects with transco, columbia gulf and various other pipelines cpgpl 410 1.20 colorado and kansas, natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area transcolorado gas 310 0.98 colorado and new mexico; connects to san juan, paradox and piceance basins wyco (50%) 224 1.20 7 northeast colorado; interconnects with cig, wic, rockies express pipeline, young gas storage and psco's pipeline system elba express 200 0.95 georgia; connects to sng (georgia), transco (georgia/south carolina), slng (georgia) and dominion energy carolina gas transmission (georgia) fep (50%) 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission and anr pipeline company kmlp 135 2.20 sources gas from cheniere sabine pass lng terminal to interconnects with columbia gulf, anr and various other pipelines sierrita gas pipeline llc (35%) 61 0.20 near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico border near sasabe, arizona; connects to epng and via an international border crossing with a third-party natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage (48%) 16 5.8 morgan county, colorado, capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities keystone gas storage 15 6.4 located in the permian basin and near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas gulf lng holdings (50%) 5 6.6 near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and a natural gas processing plant bear creek storage (75%) 59 located in louisiana; provides storage capacity to sng and tgp slng 11.5 georgia; connects to elba express, sng and dominion energy carolina gas transmission elc (51%) 0.35 georgia; expect phased in-service from mid-2018 to mid-2019 midstream natural gas assets km texas and tejas pipelines 5,660 7.00 132 [0.54] texas gulf coast mier-monterrey pipeline 90 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connect to cenegas national system and multiple power plants in monterrey km north texas pipeline 80 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant oklahoma oklahoma system 3,500 .50 [0.14] hunton dewatering, woodford shale and mississippi lime hiland - midcontinent 620 .22 woodford shale, anadarko basin and arkoma basin cedar cove (70%) 85 0.03 oklahoma stack, capacity excludes third-party offloads south texas south texas system 1,300 1.74 [1.02] eagle ford shale, woodbine and eaglebine formations webb/duval gas gathering system (63%) 145 0.15 south texas 10 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region eaglehawk (25%) 530 1.20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 1,380 0.08 [0.08] utah, uinta basin red cedar (49%) 900 0.70 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field rocky mountain fort union (37%) 310 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn (51%) 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 510 2.00 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations north texas 550 0.14 [0.10] north barnett shale combo endeavor (40%) 101 0.15 east texas, cotton valley sands and haynesville/ bossier shale camino real 70 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km treating odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas hiland - williston 2,030 .32 [0.20] bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) midstream liquids/oil/condensate pipelines (mbbl/d) (mbbl) liberty pipeline (50%) 87 140 y-grade pipeline from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast south texas ngl pipelines 340 115 ethane and propane pipelines from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast camino real - condensate 69 110 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation hiland - williston - oil 1,500 282 bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) eaglehawk - condensate (25%) 400 220 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation _______ (a) we operate ruby and own the common interest in ruby. pembina pipeline corporation (pembina) owns the remaining interest in ruby in the form of a convertible preferred interest. if pembina converted its preferred interest into common interest, we and pembina would each own a 50% common interest in ruby. competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines segment. our operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other projects are proposed that would compete with us. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane, fuel oils and renewables such as wind and solar. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete 11 package of co 2 supply, transportation and technical expertise to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. sales and transportation activities our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin. our ownership of co 2 resources as of december 31, 2017 includes: ownership interest % recoverable co 2 (bcf) compression capacity (bcf/d) location recoverable co 2 mcelmo dome unit 45 4,159 1.5 colorado doe canyon deep unit 87 382 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit(a) 11 285 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we do not operate this unit. co 2 segment pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. the tariffs charged on the wink crude oil pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission and the pecos carbon dioxide pipeline's tariffs are regulated by the texas railroad commission. the tariff charged on the cortez pipeline is based on a consent decree and the tariffs charged by our other co 2 pipelines are not regulated. our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2017 includes: asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline transport capacity (bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline (53%) 569 1.5 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 334 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline (13%)(a) 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline (98%) 163 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 113 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 98 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline (95%) 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit goldsmith landreth (99%) 3 0.2 goldsmith landreth san andres field in the permian basin of west texas (bbls/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 457 145,000 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. 12 oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas include the following: kmi gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 sharon ridge 14 2,619 tall cotton (roz) 100 641 midcross 13 320 reinecke(a) 80 _______ (a) working interest less than 1 percent. the following table sets forth productive wells, service wells and drilling wells in the oil and gas fields in which we owned interests as of december 31, 2017 . the oil and gas producing fields in which we own interests are located in the permian basin area of west texas. when used with respect to acres or wells, gross refers to the total acres or wells in which we have a working interest, and net refers to gross acres or wells multiplied, in each case, by the percentage working interest owned by us: productive wells(a) service wells(b) drilling wells(c) gross net gross net gross net crude oil 2,327 1,518 1,412 1,088 27 26 natural gas 5 2 total wells 2,332 1,520 1,412 1,088 27 26 _______ (a) includes active wells and wells temporarily shut-in. as of december 31, 2017 , we did not operate any productive wells with multiple completions. (b) consists of injection, water supply, disposal wells and service wells temporarily shut-in. a disposal well is used for disposal of salt water into an underground formation; and an injection well is a well drilled in a known oil field in order to inject liquids and/or gases that enhance recovery. (c) consists of development wells in the process of being drilled as of december 31, 2017 . a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. the following table reflects our wells that were completed in each of the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 productive development 108 40 87 exploratory 3 20 total productive 108 43 107 dry exploratory total wells 108 43 107 _______ note: the above table includes wells that were completed during each year regardless of the year in which drilling was initiated, and does not include any wells where drilling and completion operations were not finalized as of the end of the applicable year. a completed well refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil and gas. a development well is a well drilled in an already discovered oil field. a dry hole is reflected once the well has been abandoned and reported to the appropriate governmental agency. 13 the following table reflects the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage that we held as of december 31, 2017: gross net developed acres 75,752 72,562 undeveloped acres 17,282 15,351 total 93,034 87,913 our oil and gas producing activities are not significant and therefore, we do not include the supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities under accounting standards codification topic 932, extractive activities - oil and gas. gas and gasoline plant interests operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources, and oxy u.s.a., inc., which controls waste co 2 extracted from natural gas production in the val verde basin of west texas. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. terminals our terminals segment includes the operations of our refined petroleum product, crude oil, chemical, ethanol and other liquid terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines segment) and all of our petroleum coke, steel and coal facilities. our terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide expansion opportunities. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, terminals' marine operations include jones act qualified product tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined petroleum products between u.s. ports. the following summarizes our terminals segment assets, as of december 31, 2017 : number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals 51 87.4 bulk terminals 35 jones act tankers 16 5.3 competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in north america, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical, pipeline, and refining companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminaling services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent 14 operators with lower cost structures. our jones act qualified product tankers compete with other jones act qualified vessel fleets. products pipelines our products pipelines segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, our condensate processing facility and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes our significant products pipelines segment assets we own and operate as of december 31, 2017 : asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline number of terminals (a) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region plantation pipeline (51%) 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. west coast products pipelines(b) pacific (sfpp) 2,845 13 15.2 six western states calnev 566 2 2.0 colton, ca to las vegas, nv; mojave region west coast terminals 38 7 10.3 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas cochin pipeline 1,810 3 1.1 three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 264 5 2.6 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt, karnes, and gonzales counties) to the houston ship channel refining complex double h pipeline 511 bakken shale in montana and north dakota to guernsey, wyoming central florida pipeline 206 2 2.4 tampa to orlando double eagle pipeline (50%) 204 2 0.6 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county cypress pipeline (50%) 104 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana southeast terminals 32 10.7 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee km condensate processing facility 1 1.9 houston ship channel, galena park, texas transmix operations 5 0.6 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) our west coast products pipelines assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. competition our products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. our products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. kinder morgan canada our kinder morgan canada business segment includes the trans mountain pipeline system and a 25-mile jet fuel pipeline system. effective with kml's may 2017 ipo, the operating assets in our kinder morgan canada segment are included in kml. operating assets in our terminals and products pipelines segments are also included in kml, in which we retain a controlling interest, and kml and these operating assets are included in our consolidated financial statements. 15 trans mountain pipeline system the trans mountain pipeline system (tmpl) originates at edmonton, alberta and transports crude oil and refined petroleum products to destinations in the interior and on the west coast of british columbia. the tmpl is 713 miles in length. the capacity of the line at edmonton ranges from 300 mbbl/d when heavy crude oil represents 20% of the total throughput (which is a historically normal heavy crude oil percentage), to 400 mbbl/d with no heavy crude oil. the tmpl mainline is a common carrier pipeline, providing transportation services under a cost of service model that is negotiated with shippers and regulated by the neb. although trans mountain takes custody of its shippers' products, it does not own any of the product it ships. the tmpl system has posted tariff rates that are available to all shippers based on a monthly contract which varies according to the type of product being shipped as well as receipt and delivery points. as such, it provides service to producers, marketers, refineries and terminals who sell or resell products to domestic markets, oil marketers and international shippers moving oil to such places as california, washington state and asia. we also own and operate a connecting pipeline that delivers crude oil to refineries in the state of washington referred to as the puget sound pipeline system which is regulated by the ferc for tariffs and the u.s. department of transportation for safety and integrity. tmep kml continues to move forward with its c$7.4 billion tmep that upon completion would provide western canadian crude oil producers with an additional 590 mbbl/d of shipping capacity and tidewater access to the western u.s. (most notably states of washington, california and hawaii) and global markets (most notably asia). tmep has firm transportation services agreements with 13 companies for a total of 707.5 mbbl/d based on a capacity of 890 mbbl/d (the maximum amount that trans mountain anticipated the neb would authorize). see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general kml tmep construction progress. jet fuel pipeline system we also own and operate the approximate 25-mile aviation fuel pipeline that serves the vancouver international airport, located in vancouver, british columbia, canada. the turbine fuel pipeline is referred to in this report as the jet fuel pipeline system. in addition to its receiving and storage facilities located at the westridge marine terminal, located in port metro vancouver, the jet fuel pipeline system's operations include a terminal at the vancouver airport that consists of five jet fuel storage tanks with an overall capacity of 15 mbbl. competition although trans mountain is the only pipeline carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products from alberta to the west coast, it is subject to competition resulting from the shipment of oil from the western canadian sedimentary basis (wcsb) to markets other than the canadian and u.s. west coast, including shipments to refineries in ontario, the u.s. midwest and the u.s. gulf coast. in addition, refineries in washington state and california, which comprise an important point of sale on the u.s. west coast, have, in the past, been supplied primarily by crude oil from the alaska north slope. as such, there has historically been some competitive pressure on supply originating from the wcsb for sale in the states of washington and california refinery markets. a further source of competition exists from the transportation of oil to the canadian west coast by rail. we expect that such supply and demand conditions in the oil markets served from the canadian west coast will continue to impact the long-term value and economics of the tmpl system. historically, the jet fuel pipeline has transported a significant proportion of the jet fuel used at the vancouver international airport. however, the airport also receives jet fuel through other means including trucks and an airport approved, and yet to be constructed, jet fuel barge-receiving terminal near the airport. the jet fuel pipeline systems' supplying refinery was sold in 2017. as a result of that sale, we are unable to predict whether, and to what extent, that refinery will continue to supply jet fuel to the jet fuel pipeline. these developments have made it unclear how much jet fuel will continue to be available for shipment to the vancouver international airport by way of the jet fuel pipeline in the future. we continue to assess our options relating to our jet fuel pipeline assets. 16 major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations (includes the operations of kinder morgan tejas pipeline llc, kinder morgan border pipeline llc, kinder morgan texas pipeline llc, kinder morgan north texas pipeline llc and the mier-monterrey mexico pipeline system) buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 business segments in 2017, 2016 and 2015 accounted for 22%, 19% and 20%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of our natural gas purchases to our natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing gathering or transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. the energy policy act of 1992 deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our crude oil and refined petroleum products pipeline systems is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. the toll charged for the portion of trans mountain's pipeline system located in the u.s. falls under the jurisdiction of the ferc. for further information, see interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations above. 17 interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates offered within the range of tariff maximums and minimums, the pipeline is permitted to charge negotiated rates where the pipeline and shippers want rate certainty, irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of agreed upon rates during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. there are a variety of rates that different shippers may pay, but while the rates may vary by shipper and circumstance, pipelines must generally use the form of service agreement that is contained within their ferc approved tariff. any deviation from the pro forma service agreements must be filed with the ferc and only certain types of deviations are acceptable to the ferc. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to ensure that interstate natural gas pipelines operated on a not unduly discriminatory basis and to create a more competitive and transparent environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; order nos. 587, et seq., order no. 809 (1996-2015) which adopt regulations to standardize the business practices and communication methodologies of interstate natural gas pipelines to create a more integrated and efficient pipeline grid and wherein the ferc has incorporated by reference in its regulations standards for interstate natural gas pipeline business practices and electronic communications that were developed and adopted by the north american energy standards board (naesb). interstate natural gas pipelines are required to incorporate by reference or verbatim in their respective tariffs the applicable version of the naesb standards; order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for transportation services and storage services for natural gas); order no. 637 (2000) which revised, among other things, ferc regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, and pipeline penalties in order to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the interstate pipeline grid; and order no. 717 (2008) amending the standards of conduct for transmission providers (the standards of conduct or the standards) to make them clearer and to refocus the marketing affiliate rules on the areas where there is the greatest potential for abuse. the ferc standards of conduct address and clarify multiple issues with respect to the actions and operations of interstate natural gas pipelines and public utilities using a functional approach to ensure that natural gas transmission is provided on a nondiscriminatory basis, including (i) the definition of transmission function and transmission function employees; (ii) the definition of marketing function and marketing function employees; (iii) the definition of transmission function information and non-disclosure requirements regarding non-public information; (iv) independent functioning and no conduit requirements; (v) transparency requirements; and (vi) the interaction of ferc standards with the naesb business practice standards. the standards of conduct rules also require that a transmission provider provide annual training on the standards of conduct to all transmission function employees, marketing function employees, officers, directors, supervisory employees, and any other employees likely to become privy to transmission function information. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. 18 cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. railroad commission of texas (rct) rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil and liquids pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the rct. the rct has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. mexico - energy regulatory commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulatory commission (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2026. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitation (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. mexico - national agency for industrial safety and environmental protection (asea) asea regulates environmental compliance and industrial and operational safety. the mier-monterrey pipeline must satisfy and maintain asea's requirements, including compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety, including a safety administration program. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations imposed by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. these tests could result in significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or pipes act of 2016 requires phmsa, among others, to set minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities and allows states to go above those standards for intrastate pipelines. in compliance with the pipes act of 2016, we have implemented procedures for underground natural gas storage facilities. the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which was signed into law in 2012, increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the next few 19 years. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the advisory bulletin requirements, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages caused by an alleged failure to properly mark the locations of our pipelines and/or to properly maintain our pipelines. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are addressing the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may precipitate claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock and under certain circumstances, consistent with our certificate of incorporation, we have the right to redeem shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and manned by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the u.s. secretary of transportation the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. 20 however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $279 million as of december 31, 2017. our aggregate reserve estimate ranges in value from approximately $279 million to approximately $443 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian statutes. from time to time, the epa and state and canadian regulators consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate 21 materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention and response to oil spills. spill prevention control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. epa revisions to ozone national ambient air quality standard (naaqs) as required by the clean air act, epa establishes national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for how much pollution is permissible and then the states have to adopt rules so their air quality meets the naaqs. in october 2015, epa published a rule lowering the ground level ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to a more stringent 70 ppb standard. this change triggers a process under which epa will designate the areas of the country that are in or out of attainment with the new naaqs standard. then, certain states will have to adopt more stringent air quality regulations to meet the naaqs standard. these new state rules, which are expected in 2020 or 2021, will likely require the installation of more stringent air pollution controls on newly installed equipment and possibly require retrofitting existing kmi facilities with air pollution controls. given the nationwide implications of the new rule, it is expected that it will have financial impacts for each of our business units. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of such greenhouse gases, including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain greenhouse gases including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with greenhouse gas emissions reporting and permitting requirements. for example, in august 2016, the epa rule regarding the oil and natural gas sector: emission standards for new and modified sources, otherwise known as the proposed new source performance standard (nsps) part ooooa rule, became effective. this rule is the first federal rule under the clean air act to regulate methane as a pollutant and impose additional pollution control and work practice requirements on applicable kmi facilities. on october 23, 2015, the epa published as a final rule the clean power plan, which sets interim and final co 2 emission performance rates for power generating units that fire coal, oil or natural gas. the final rule is the focus of legislative discussion in the u.s. congress and litigation in federal court. on february 10, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved. in october 2017, epa proposed to repeal the clean power plan. the ultimate resolution of the final rule's validity remains uncertain. while we do not operate power plants that would be subject to the clean power plan final rule, it remains unclear what effect the final rule, if it comes into force, might have on the anticipated demand for natural gas, including natural gas that we gather, process, store and transport. 22 at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fired compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for greenhouse gases that go beyond the requirements of the epa. depending on the particular program, we could be required to conduct monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to the greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries' pipelines, such recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies, and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. however, the timing and location of these climate change impacts is not known with any certainty and, in any event, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over a long time horizon. thus, we are not in a position to say whether the physical impacts of climate change pose a material risk to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. because natural gas emits less greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives such as the clean power plan could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that greenhouse gas regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, greenhouse gas regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 10,897 full-time people at december 31, 2017 , including approximately 801 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2018 and 2022. we consider relations with our employees to be good. 23 most of our employees are employed by us and a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain the right to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land for a period of time. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased in fee. ( d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to operating our business our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle. our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for oil, natural gas, ngl, refined petroleum products, co 2 , coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher 24 production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the alberta oil sands. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. trends in the business environment, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, higher development costs, or high feedstock prices that adversely impact demand, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of the products we handle. each of these factors impacts our customers shipping through our pipelines or using our terminals, which in turn could impact the prospects of new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts. implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could reduce production of and/or demand for the products we handle, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for the products we handle. expanding our existing assets and constructing new assets is part of our growth strategy. our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, permits and rights-of-way, as well as public opposition, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in our construction projects. these factors can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects. inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant cost overruns or delays, or our inability to obtain a required permit or right-of-way, could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. for example, our ability to continue and complete construction on the tmep may be inhibited, delayed or stopped by a variety of factors (some of which may be outside of our control), including without limitation, inabilities to overcome challenges posed by or related to regulatory approvals by federal, provincial or municipal governments, difficulty in obtaining, or inability to obtain, permits (including those that are required prior to construction such as the permits required under the species at risk act), land agreements, public opposition, blockades, legal and regulatory proceedings (including judicial reviews, injunctions, detailed route hearings and land acquisition processes), delays to ancillary projects that are required for the tmep (including, with respect to power lines and power supply), increased costs and/or cost overruns and inclement weather or significant weather-related events. we face competition from other pipelines and terminals, as well as other forms of transportation and storage. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation (such as barge, rail or truck) that delivers the products we handle into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. likewise, competing terminals or other storage options may become more attractive to our customers. to the extent that competitors offer the markets we serve with new transportation or storage options, this could result in unused capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals. if pipeline capacity remains unsubscribed, our ability to re-contract for expiring capacity at favorable rates or otherwise retain existing customers could be impaired. we also could experience competition for the supply of the products we handle from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, 25 which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. see the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipeline and products pipelines business segments. if global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the u.s. or other key markets become more volatile or deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. we are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. some of these counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating, market and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. in 2015 and 2016, several of our counterparties defaulted on their obligations to us, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection. for more information regarding the impact to our operating results from customer bankruptcies, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations segment earnings results terminals. we cannot provide any assurance that other financially distressed counterparties will not also default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. if a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts that they owe to us. additional counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. furthermore, in the case of financially distressed customers, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. we may experience difficulties integrating new businesses and properties, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (ii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting, internal controls and other systems; and (iv) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. we do not own substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located. if we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected. we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others. while our interstate natural gas pipelines in the u.s. have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2 , or crude oil and the laws of the particular state. we likewise must obtain approval from various governmental entities to construct and operate our pipelines in canada, particularly for the tmep. in any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. if we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete 26 construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases. if we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and an increase in our costs. commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to transportation and storage of the products we handle, such as leaks, releases, explosions, mechanical problems and damage caused by third parties. additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses, negatively impact our reputation and increase public opposition to our expansion or new build projects. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and cash flows while the affected asset is temporarily out of service. in addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. the revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. our co 2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our natural gas pipelines segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our product pipelines segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. for 2018, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our dcf by approximately $7 million and each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact dcf by approximately $1 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) the condition of the u.s. economy; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in the middle east and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources. we use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. please read our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, ngl, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our co 2 business segment's proved reserves. if prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk. 27 the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our co 2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, ngl and natural gas. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. the markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. as our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. to the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely eliminate our exposure to commodity prices; therefore, our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities and note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. a breach of information security or failure of one or more key information technology or operational (it) systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business, results of operation or harm our business reputation. our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to, controlling our pipelines and terminals with industrial control systems, collecting and storing information and data, processing transactions, and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to 28 perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. terrorist attacks, including cyber sabotage, or the threat of such attacks, may adversely affect our business or harm our business reputation. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber sabotage events. these potential targets might include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. the occurrence of a terrorist attack could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or harm our business reputation. hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. these natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. in the third quarter of 2017, hurricane harvey caused disruptions in our operations and, as of december 31, 2017, we had incurred $27 million in repair costs to our assets near the texas gulf coast. for more information regarding the impact of hurricane harvey on our assets and operating results, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals. the increased financial reporting and other obligations of management resulting from kml's obligations as a public company may divert management's attention away from other business operations. kml, in which we own an approximate 70% interest, completed its ipo in canada in may of 2017. certain of our officers and directors also serve as officers and directors of kml, and we provide financial reporting support and other services as requested by kml and its controlled affiliates pursuant to a services agreement. the increased obligations associated with providing support to kml as a public company may divert our management's attention from other business concerns and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to financial reporting and other obligations that place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, legal, internal audit and accounting resources. the demands on our personnel will be intensified as they comply with the additional obligations applicable to kml. 29 if we are unable to retain our executive chairman, chief executive officer or other executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly richard d. kinder, our executive chairman and one of our founders, and steve kean, our president and chief executive officer. along with the other members of our senior management, mr. kinder and mr. kean have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our kinder morgan canada and terminals segments are subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of our kinder morgan canada and terminals business segments, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $36.9 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or ebitda, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets, or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 9 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities and reduce our cash flows. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities. 30 also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. kml and its subsidiaries are not part of the cross guarantee and are rated separately by credit rating agencies. however, because of our approximate 70% ownership interest in kml, we could be indirectly affected if kml experiences material adverse changes in its credit ratings or access to capital. acquisitions and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. we have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2017, approximately $10.4 billion of our approximately $36.9 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-interest rate risk. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more limiting restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. risks related to ownership of our capital stock the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock and on our preferred stock (or depositary shares). these reflect our current judgment, but as with any estimate, they may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this report. if we elect to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed above under risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. 31 our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-u.s. citizens within the meaning of the jones act. these restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-u.s. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. the jones act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by u.s. citizens, as defined under the jones act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade. as a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a u.s. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to 22%. these redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the u.s. further, stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. in addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-u.s. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders. risks related to regulation new laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. in addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the current u.s. presidential administration because it remains unclear specifically what the current administration may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state, provincial and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vii) the acquisition of other businesses; (viii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (ix) reporting and information posting requirements; (x) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xi) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, unexpected policy changes or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including the 2017 tax reform, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business regulation. the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 17 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. in addition, following the 2017 tax reform, which reduced the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, various industry groups have petitioned the ferc to consider action with respect to tax recovery in existing jurisdictional rates. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 32 environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act, the oil pollution act or analogous state or provincial laws as a result of the presence or release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances into or through the environment, and these laws may require response actions and remediation and may impose liability for natural resource and other damages. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties-(c) narrative description of business environmental matters. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity. there are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the dot for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. 33 further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. climate change and related regulation could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases such as methane and co 2 , including the epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. existing epa regulations require us to report greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated ngl, and production of naturally occurring co 2 (for example, from our mcelmo dome co 2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. proposed approaches to further regulate greenhouse gas emissions include establishing greenhouse gas cap and trade programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business -environmental matters climate change. adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to greenhouse gases, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. finally, some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. to the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. we gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or ngl from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or ngl and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, 34 legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the cftc and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. in december 2016, the cftc re-proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. as the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the dodd-frank act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided. the dodd-frank act, related regulations and the reduction in competition due to derivatives industry consolidation have (i) increased the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduced the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduced the liquidity of energy related derivatives. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our u.s. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or a repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and manned by predominately u.s. crews. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 energy commodity market risk 68 interest rate risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the 67 maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we manage these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we use include energy products traded on the nymex and otc markets, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. our hedging strategy involves entering into a financial position intended to offset our physical position, or anticipated position, in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating societe generale a macquarie bbb wells fargo a canadian imperial bank a+ nextera a- as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. we measure the risk of price changes in the natural gas, ngl and crude oil derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying commodity prices would have the following effect on the associated derivative contracts' estimated fair value (in millions): as of december 31, commodity derivative 2017 2016 crude oil $ 125 $ 117 natural gas 15 16 ngl 10 11 total $ 150 $ 144 68 as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts' portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the natural gas, ngl and crude oil portfolios of derivative contracts assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt. we are generally subject to interest rate risk upon refinancing maturing debt. below are our debt balances, including debt fair value adjustments and the preferred interest in kmgp, and sensitivity to interest rates (in millions): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 carrying value estimated fair value(c) carrying value estimated fair value(c) fixed rate debt(a) $ 37,041 $ 39,255 $ 38,861 $ 39,854 variable rate debt $ 802 $ 795 $ 1,189 $ 1,161 notional principal amount of fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements 9,575 9,775 debt balances subject to variable interest rates(b) $ 10,377 $ 10,964 _______ (a) a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , would result in changes of approximately $1,525 million and $1,527 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. (b) a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 50 basis points in both 2017 and 2016 ) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $52 million and $54 million , respectively, in our 2017 and 2016 annual pre-tax earnings. (c) fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flows discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of converting a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2017 , including debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps but excluding our debt fair value adjustments, approximately 28% of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates. 69 for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency risk as of december 31, 2017, we had a notional principal amount of $1,358 million of cross-currency swap agreements that effectively convert all of our fixed rate euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to u.s. dollar denominated debt at fixed rates. these swaps eliminate the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency denominated debt.risk factors 21 risk factors below, there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and full and partial divestitures, and we are currently contemplating potential transactions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions, and, as applicable, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase or sale agreements for the acquisition or sale of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments our business segments and their primary activities and sources of revenues are as follows: natural gas pipelines the ownership and operation of (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas and crude oil gathering systems and natural gas processing and treating facilities; (iii) ngl fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) lng facilities; products pipelines the ownership and operation of refined petroleum products, ngl and crude oil and condensate pipelines that primarily deliver, among other products, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, propane, ethane, crude oil and condensate to various markets, plus the ownership and/or operation of associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities; terminals the ownership and/or operation of (i) liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the u.s. and portions of canada that transload and store refined petroleum products, crude oil, ethanol and chemicals, and bulk products, including petroleum coke, metals and ores; and (ii) jones act tankers; co 2 (i) the production, transportation and marketing of co 2 to oil fields that use co 2 as a flooding medium to increase recovery and production of crude oil from mature oil fields; (ii) ownership interests in and/or operation of oil fields and gas processing plants in west texas; and (iii) the ownership and operation of a crude oil pipeline system in west texas; and kinder morgan canada (prior to august 31, 2018) the ownership and operation of the trans mountain pipeline system that transports crude oil and refined petroleum products from edmonton, alberta, canada to marketing terminals and refineries in british columbia, canada and the state of washington. as a result of the tmpl sale, this segment does not have results of operations on a prospective basis. 7 natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines business segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines and our lng terminals, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas transportation, storage, sales, gathering, processing and treating, and various lng services. within this segment are: (i) approximately 46,000 miles of wholly owned natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 26,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, the midwest, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng terminals also serve natural gas market areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines business segment assets, as of december 31, 2018 . the design capacity represents transmission, gathering or liquefaction capacity, depending on the nature of the asset. asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region natural gas pipelines tgp 11,775 12.10 76 marcellus, utica, gulf coast, haynesville, and eagle ford shale supply basins; northeast, southeast u.s., gulf coast and u.s.-mexico border epng/mojave pipeline system 10,660 5.65 44 northern new mexico, texas, oklahoma, to california, connects to san juan, permian and anadarko basins ngpl (50%) 9,100 7.60 288 chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins; north to south for lng and to u.s.-mexico border sng (50%) 6,950 4.32 66 louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee; basins in texas, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) (50%) 5,350 3.90 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico cig 4,280 5.15 38 colorado and wyoming; rocky mountains and the anadarko basin wic 850 3.83 wyoming, colorado and utah; overthrust, piceance, uinta, powder river and green river basins ruby (50%)(a) 680 1.53 wyoming to oregon with interconnects supplying california and the pacific northwest; rocky mountain basins mep (50%) 510 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply basins to interconnects with deliveries to interconnects with transco, columbia gulf and various other pipelines cpgpl 410 1.20 colorado and kansas, natural gas basins in the central rocky mountain area transcolorado gas 310 0.80 colorado and new mexico; connects to san juan, paradox and piceance basins wyco (50%) 224 1.20 7 northeast colorado; interconnects with cig, wic, rockies express pipeline, young gas storage and psco's pipeline system elba express 200 1.06 georgia; connects to sng (georgia), transco (georgia/south carolina), slng (georgia) and dominion energy carolina gas transmission (georgia) fep (50%) 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission and anr pipeline company kmlp 135 2.95 columbia gulf, anr pipeline company and various other pipeline interconnects; cheniere sabine pass lng and industrial markets sierrita gas pipeline llc (35%) 60 0.20 near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico border near sasabe, arizona; connects to epng and via an international border crossing with a third-party natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage (48%) 17 5.8 morgan county, colorado, capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities keystone gas storage 15 6.4 located in the permian basin and near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas 8 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region gulf lng holdings (50%) 5 1.50 6.6 near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and a natural gas processing plant bear creek storage (75%) 59.2 located in louisiana; provides storage capacity to sng and tgp slng 1.76 11.5 georgia; connects to elba express, sng and dominion energy carolina gas transmission elc (51%) 0.35 georgia; expect phased in-service q1 2019 through q4 2019 midstream natural gas assets km texas and tejas pipelines 5,640 7.00 134 [0.51] texas gulf coast mier-monterrey pipeline 90 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connect to cenegas national system and multiple power plants in monterrey km north texas pipeline 80 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant oklahoma oklahoma system 4,075 0.75 [0.14] hunton dewatering, woodford shale, anadarko basin and mississippi lime, arkoma basin cedar cove (70%) 115 0.03 oklahoma stack, capacity excludes third-party offloads south texas south texas system 1,300 1.93 [1.02] eagle ford shale, woodbine and eaglebine formations webb/duval gas gathering system (63%) 145 0.15 south texas eaglehawk (25%) 530 1.20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 1,370 0.08 [0.08] utah, uinta basin red cedar (49%) 900 0.55 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field rocky mountain fort union (37%) 310 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn (51%) 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 520 2.35 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations north texas 550 0.14 [0.10] north barnett shale combo camino real 70 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km treating odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas hiland - williston 2,030 0.37 [0.20] bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) midstream liquids/oil/condensate pipelines (mbbl/d) (mbbl) liberty pipeline (50%) 87 140 y-grade pipeline from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast south texas ngl pipelines 340 115 ethane and propane pipelines from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast camino real - condensate(b) 70 110 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation hiland - williston - oil(b) 1,587 282 bakken/three forks shale formations (north dakota/montana) eaglehawk - condensate (25%) 400 220 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation _______ (a) we operate ruby and own the common interest in ruby. pembina pipeline corporation (pembina) owns the remaining interest in ruby in the form of a convertible preferred interest and has 50% voting rights. if pembina converted its preferred interest into common interest, we and pembina would each own a 50% common interest in ruby. 9 (b) effective january 1, 2019, these assets were transferred from the natural gas pipelines business segment to the products pipelines business segment. competition the market for supply of natural gas is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve the growing demand for natural gas in each of the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. our operations compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines, and their shippers, for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service and flexibility and reliability of service. from time to time, other projects are proposed that would compete with us. we do not know whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including electricity, coal, propane, fuel oils and renewables such as wind and solar. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of natural gas and other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. products pipelines our products pipelines business segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate, and ngl pipelines and associated terminals, southeast terminals, our condensate processing facility and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes our significant products pipelines business segment assets we own and operate as of december 31, 2018 : asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline number of terminals (a) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region plantation pipeline (51%) 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. west coast products pipelines(b) pacific (sfpp) 2,845 13 15.1 six western states calnev 566 2 2.0 colton, ca to las vegas, nv; mojave region west coast terminals 64 7 10.0 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas, vancouver jet fuel pipeline cochin pipeline(c) 1,525 4 1.1 three provinces in canada and seven states in the u.s. utopia pipeline (50%)(c) 270 harrison county, ohio extending to windsor, ontario km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 264 5 2.6 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt, karnes, and gonzales counties) to the houston ship channel refining complex double h pipeline 512 bakken shale in montana and north dakota to guernsey, wyoming central florida pipeline 206 2 2.5 tampa to orlando double eagle pipeline (50%) 204 2 0.6 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county cypress pipeline (50%)(c) 104 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana southeast terminals(d) 32 10.8 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee km condensate processing facility 1 2.0 houston ship channel, galena park, texas transmix operations 5 0.6 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) our west coast products pipelines assets include interstate common carrier pipelines rate-regulated by the ferc, intrastate pipelines in the state of california rate-regulated by the cpuc, and certain non rate-regulated operations and terminal facilities. 10 (c) effective january 1, 2019, these assets were transferred from the products pipelines business segment to the natural gas pipelines business segment. (d) effective january 1, 2019, a small number of terminals were transferred between the products pipelines and terminals business segments. competition our products pipelines' pipeline operations compete against proprietary pipelines owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products) and railcars. our products pipelines' terminal operations compete with proprietary terminals owned and operated by major oil companies and other independent terminal operators, and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. terminals our terminals business segment includes the operations of our refined petroleum product, crude oil, chemical, ethanol and other liquid terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines business segment) and all of our petroleum coke, metal and ores facilities. our terminals are located throughout the u.s. and in portions of canada. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide expansion opportunities. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, terminals' marine operations include jones act-qualified product tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined petroleum products between u.s. ports. the following summarizes our terminals business segment assets, as of december 31, 2018 : number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals(a) 52 89.6 bulk terminals 34 jones act tankers 16 5.3 _______ (a) effective january 1, 2019, a small number of terminals were transferred between the terminals and products pipelines business segments. competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in north america, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical, pipeline, and refining companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminaling services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. our jones act-qualified product tankers compete with other jones act qualified vessel fleets. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete package of co 2 supply and transportation services to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. 11 sales and transportation activities our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin. our ownership of co 2 resources as of december 31, 2018 includes: ownership interest % compression capacity (bcf/d) location mcelmo dome unit 45 1.5 colorado doe canyon deep unit 87 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit(a) 11 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we do not operate this unit. co 2 business segment pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable for the next several years. the tariffs charged on (i) the wink crude oil pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission; (ii) the pecos carbon dioxide pipeline are regulated by the texas railroad commission; and (iii) the cortez pipeline are based on a consent decree. our other co 2 pipelines are not regulated. our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2018 includes: asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline transport capacity (bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline (53%) 569 1.5 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 334 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline (13%)(a) 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline (98%) 163 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 113 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 98 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline (95%) 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit (bbls/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 457 145,000 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. 12 oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas include the following: kmi gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 sharon ridge 14 2,619 tall cotton 100 641 midcross 13 320 reinecke 70 3,793 our oil and gas producing activities are not significant, and therefore, we do not include the supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities under accounting standards codification topic 932, extractive activities - oil and gas. gas and gasoline plant interests operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations (includes the operations of kinder morgan tejas pipeline llc, kinder morgan border pipeline llc, kinder morgan texas pipeline llc, kinder morgan north texas pipeline llc and the mier-monterrey mexico pipeline system) buys and sells significant volumes of natural gas within the state of texas, and, to a far lesser extent, the co 2 business segment also sells natural gas. combined, total revenues from the sales of natural gas from the natural gas pipelines and co 2 business segments in 2018, 2017 and 2016 accounted for 23%, 22% and 19%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. to the extent possible, we attempt to balance the pricing and timing of our natural gas purchases to our natural gas sales, and these contracts are often settled in terms of an index price for both purchases and sales. 13 regulation interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation - u.s. operations some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing gathering or transportation services on our interstate common carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. the energy policy act of 1992 deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on our pacific operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the pacific pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 18 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products and crude oil pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a petroleum products or crude oil pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. common carrier pipeline rate regulation - canadian operations the canadian portion of our condensate cochin pipeline system is under the regulatory jurisdiction of the neb. the national energy board act gives the neb power to authorize pipeline construction and to establish tolls and conditions of service. interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation as an owner and operator of natural gas companies subject to the natural gas act of 1938, we are required to provide service to shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities at regulated rates that have been determined by the ferc to be just and reasonable. recourse rates and general terms and conditions for service are set forth in posted tariffs approved by the ferc for each pipeline (including storage facilities or companies as used herein). generally, recourse rates are based on our cost of service, including recovery of and a return on our investment. posted tariff rates are deemed just and reasonable and cannot be changed without ferc authorization following an evidentiary hearing or settlement. the ferc can initiate proceedings, on its own initiative or in response to a shipper complaint, that could result in a rate change or confirm existing rates. posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates, upon mutual agreement, the pipeline is permitted to charge negotiated rates that are not bound by and are irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of agreed-upon rates during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. the actual negotiated rate agreement or a summary of such agreement must be posted as part of the pipelines' tariffs. while pipelines and their shippers may agree to a variety of negotiated rate structures depending on the shipper and circumstance, pipelines 14 generally must use for all shippers the form of service agreement that is contained within their ferc-approved tariff. any deviation from the pro forma service agreements must be filed with the ferc and only certain types of deviations in the terms and conditions of service are acceptable to the ferc. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980's, the ferc initiated a number of regulatory changes intended to ensure that interstate natural gas pipelines operated on a not unduly discriminatory basis and to create a more competitive and transparent environment in the natural gas marketplace. among the most important of these changes were: order no. 436 (1985) which required open-access, nondiscriminatory transportation of natural gas; order no. 497 (1988) which set forth new standards and guidelines imposing certain constraints on the interaction between interstate natural gas pipelines and their marketing affiliates and imposing certain disclosure requirements regarding that interaction; order nos. 587, et seq., order no. 809 (1996-2015) which adopt regulations to standardize the business practices and communication methodologies of interstate natural gas pipelines to create a more integrated and efficient pipeline grid and wherein the ferc has incorporated by reference in its regulations standards for interstate natural gas pipeline business practices and electronic communications that were developed and adopted by the north american energy standards board (naesb). interstate natural gas pipelines are required to incorporate by reference or verbatim in their respective tariffs the applicable version of the naesb standards; order no. 636 (1992) which required interstate natural gas pipelines that perform open-access transportation under blanket certificates to unbundle or separate their traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and to provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas supplies. natural gas pipelines must now separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for transportation services and storage services for natural gas); order no. 637 (2000) which revised, among other things, ferc regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation, and pipeline penalties in order to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the interstate pipeline grid; and order no. 717 (2008) amending the standards of conduct for transmission providers (the standards of conduct or the standards) to make them clearer and to refocus the marketing affiliate rules on the areas where there is the greatest potential for abuse. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our pacific operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the pacific operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc, as is more fully described in note 18 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. railroad commission of texas (rct) rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil and liquids pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the rct. the rct has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. 15 mexico - energy regulatory commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulatory commission of mexico (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2026. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitation: (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. mexico - national agency for industrial safety and environmental protection (asea) asea regulates environmental compliance and industrial and operational safety. the mier-monterrey pipeline must satisfy and maintain asea's requirements, including compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety, including a safety administration program. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations issued by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the ultimate costs of compliance with pipeline integrity management rules are difficult to predict. changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to the amount of pipe determined to be located in hcas can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we will continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. these tests could result in significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to continue the safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or pipes act of 2016 requires phmsa, among other regulators, to set minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities and allows states to set more stringent standards for intrastate pipelines. in compliance with the pipes act of 2016, we have implemented procedures for underground natural gas storage facilities. the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which was signed into law in 2012, increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the future. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the advisory bulletin requirements, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. from time to time, our pipelines or facilities may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are fulfilling the osha 16 requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state, provincial and local regulation certain of our activities are subject to various state or provincial and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may result in claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third-party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and crewed by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock and under certain circumstances consistent with our certificate of incorporation, we have the right to redeem shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and crewed by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign-flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides the u.s. secretary of transportation, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, pollution and human health and safety in the u.s. and canada. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state or provincial laws, including the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal, state and provincial environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating 17 restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we accrue liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $271 million as of december 31, 2018. our aggregate reserve estimate ranges in value from approximately $271 million to approximately $448 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 18 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and canadian federal and provincial statutes. from time to time, the epa, as well as other u.s. federal and state regulators and canadian federal and provincial regulators, consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations or wastes from oil and gas facilities that are currently exempt as exploration and production waste, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state and canadian statutes and regulations. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of ghg emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal, state or canadian authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention of and response to oil spills. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state and canadian laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. 18 epa revisions to ozone national ambient air quality standard (naaqs) as required by the clean air act, the epa establishes national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for how much pollution is permissible, and the states then have to adopt rules so their air quality meets the naaqs. in october 2015, the epa published a rule lowering the ground level ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to a more stringent 70 ppb standard. this change triggered a process under which the epa designated the areas of the country in or out of compliance with the new naaqs standard. now, certain states will have to adopt more stringent air quality regulations to meet the new naaqs standard. these new state rules, which are expected in 2020 or 2021, will likely require the installation of more stringent air pollution controls on newly-installed equipment and possibly require the retrofitting of existing kmi facilities with air pollution controls. given the nationwide implications of the new rule, it is expected that it will have financial impacts for each of our business units. climate change studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as ghgs, may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of ghgs. various laws and regulations exist or are under development to regulate the emission of such ghgs, including the epa programs to report ghg emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain ghgs including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with ghg emissions reporting and permitting requirements. on october 23, 2015, the epa published as a final rule the clean power plan, which sets interim and final co 2 emission performance rates for power generating units that are fueled by coal, oil or natural gas. the final rule is the focus of legislative discussion in the u.s. congress and litigation in federal court. on february 10, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved. in october 2017, the epa proposed to repeal the clean power plan. in august 2018, the epa proposed to replace the clean power plan and affordable clean energy rule. the ultimate determination of the clean power plan and affordable clean energy rule remains uncertain. while we do not operate power plants that would be subject to the clean power plan or the affordable clean energy rule, it remains unclear what effect a final rule, if it comes into force, might have on the anticipated demand for natural gas, including natural gas that we gather, process, store and transport. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional ghg cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fueled compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented more strict regulations for ghgs that go beyond the requirements of the epa. some of the states have implemented regulations that require additional monitoring and reporting of methane emissions. depending on the state programs pending implementation, we could be required to conduct additional monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of ghgs, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment of emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the ghg emissions, pay taxes related to the ghg emissions and administer and manage a ghg emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated entities in the industry, they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries' pipelines, recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies, and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. 19 many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. these climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. however, the timing, severity and location of these climate change impacts are not known with certainty and, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over varying time horizons. because natural gas produces less ghg emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives such as the clean power plan or affordable clean energy rule could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of competing fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that ghg regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these potential positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, ghg regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk-based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,012 full-time personnel at december 31, 2018 , including approximately 936 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2019 and 2022. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by us and a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state, provincial or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain and maintain rights to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land generally under agreements that are perpetual or provide for renewal rights. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits 20 have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased by the company. (d) financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 17 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. (e) available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to operating our business our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle. our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for natural gas, oil, ngl, refined petroleum products, co 2 , coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. for example, without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. producers may reduce or shut down production during times of lower product prices or higher production costs to the extent they become uneconomic. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, or higher development or production costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. in addition, changes in the overall demand for hydrocarbons, the regulatory environment or applicable governmental policies, including in relation to climate change or other environmental concerns, may have a negative impact on the supply of crude oil and other products. in recent years, a number of initiatives and regulatory changes relating to reducing ghg emissions have been undertaken by federal, provincial, state and municipal governments and oil and gas industry participants . in addition, emerging technologies and public opinion have resulted in increasing demand for energy efficiency, including energy provided from renewable energy sources rather than fossil fuels and fuel-efficient alternatives such as hybrid and electric vehicles. these factors could result in not only increased costs for producers of hydrocarbons but also an overall decrease in the demand for hydrocarbons. each of the foregoing could negatively impact our business directly as well as our shippers and other customers, which in turn could negatively impact our prospects for new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts or the ability of our customers and shippers to honor their contractual commitments. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us below. 21 we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for the products we handle. in addition, irrespective of supply of or demand for products we handle, implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on us. see the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. expanding our existing assets and constructing new assets is part of our growth strategy. our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, permits and rights-of-way, as well as public opposition, increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. should we pursue expansion of or construction of new projects through joint ventures with others, we will share control and benefits from those projects. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. new growth projects generally will be subject to, among other things, the receipt of regulatory approvals, feasibility and cost analyses, funding availability and industry, market and demand conditions. if we pursue joint ventures with third parties, those parties may share approval rights over major decisions, and may act in their own interests. their views may differ from our own or our views of the interests of the venture which could result in operational delays or impasses, which in turn could affect the financial expectations of and our benefits from the venture. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in or cancellations of our construction projects. regulatory authorities may modify their permitting policies in ways that disadvantage our construction projects, such as the ferc's consideration of changes to its certificate policy statement. such factors can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects. see we are subject to reputational risks and risks related to public opinion. for example, changing public attitudes toward pipelines bearing fossil fuels may impede our ability to secure rights of way or governmental reviews and authorizations on a timely basis or at all. inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns or delays, or our inability to obtain a required permit or right-of-way, could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. we face competition from other pipelines and terminals, as well as other forms of transportation and storage. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation (such as barge, rail or truck) that delivers the products we handle into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. likewise, competing terminals or other storage options may become more attractive to our customers. to the extent that competitors offer the markets we serve more desirable transportation or storage options, this could result in unused capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals. we also could experience competition for the supply of the products we handle from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. if capacity on our assets remains unused, our ability to re-contract for expiring capacity at favorable rates or otherwise retain existing customers could be impaired. the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. the revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. our co 2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our natural gas pipelines business segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our product pipelines business segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. for 2019, we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our dcf by approximately $8 million, each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact dcf by approximately $1 million, and each 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average ngl price per barrel to the wti crude oil price per barrel would impact dcf by approximately $3 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) domestic and global economic conditions; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental 22 regulation; (v) political instability in oil producing countries; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; (viii) the proximity and availability of storage and transportation infrastructure and processing and treating facilities; and (ix) the availability and prices of alternative fuel sources. we use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. please read our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, ngl, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our co 2 business segment's proved reserves. if prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods worldwide of both overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons, and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the cycles of excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas have placed pressures on prices and resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk . commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to the transportation and storage of the products we handle, such as leaks; releases; the breakdown, underperformance or failure of equipment, facilities, information systems or processes; damage to our pipelines caused by third-party construction; the compromise of information and control systems; spills at terminals and hubs; spills associated with the loading and unloading of harmful substances at rail facilities; adverse sea conditions (including storms and rising sea levels) and releases or spills from our shipping vessels or vessels loaded at our marine terminals; operator error; labor disputes/work stoppages; disputes with interconnected facilities and carriers; operational disruptions or apportionment on third-party systems or refineries on which our assets depend; and catastrophic events such as natural disasters, fires, floods, explosions, earthquakes, acts of terrorists and saboteurs, cyber security breaches, and other similar events, many of which are beyond our control. additional risks to our vessels include capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. the occurrence of any of these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution, significant reputational damage, impairment or suspension of operations, fines or other regulatory penalties, and revocation of regulatory approvals or imposition of new requirements, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses, including lost revenue and cash flow to the extent that an incident causes an interruption of service. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. in addition, the consequences of any operational incident (including as a result of adverse sea conditions) at one of our marine terminals may be even more significant as a result of the complexities involved in addressing leaks and releases occurring in the ocean or along coastlines and/or the repair of marine terminals. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. unfavorable economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. in addition, uncertain or changing economic conditions within one or more geographic regions may affect our operating results within the affected regions. volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. see the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. 23 if economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) globally, in the u.s. or in other key markets become more volatile or deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. we are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. many of our counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations or debt or equity financing, and some of them may be highly leveraged. our counterparties are subject to their own operating, market, financial and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. for example, pg&amp;e, a customer of ruby, filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in january 2019. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general investment in ruby. further, the security that is permitted to be obtained from such customers may be limited by ferc regulation. while certain of our customers are subsidiaries of an entity that has an investment grade credit rating, in many cases the parent entity has not guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary and, therefore, the parent's credit ratings may have no bearing on such customers' ability to pay us for the services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. furthermore, financially distressed customers might be forced to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we cannot provide any assurance that such customers and key counterparties will not become financially distressed or that such financially distressed customers or counterparties will not default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. if one of such customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts owed to us. significant customer and other counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. we may experience difficulties completing acquisitions or integrating new businesses and properties, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. we evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe will complement or expand our operations in accordance with our growth strategy. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete. any acquired business or assets will be subject to many of the same risks as our existing businesses and may not achieve the levels of performance that we anticipate. if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) the loss of key customers of the acquired business; (ii) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (iii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iv) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting, internal controls and other systems; and (v) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion. our business, operations or financial condition generally may be negatively impacted as a result of negative public opinion. public opinion may be influenced by negative portrayals of the industry in which we operate as well as opposition to development projects. in addition, market events specific to us could result in the deterioration of our reputation with key stakeholders. potential impacts of negative public opinion or reputational issues may include delays or stoppages in expansion projects, legal or regulatory actions or challenges, blockades, increased regulatory oversight, reduced support from regulatory 24 authorities, challenges to regulatory approvals, difficulty securing financing for and cost overruns affecting expansion projects and the degradation of our business generally. reputational risk cannot be managed in isolation from other forms of risk. credit, market, operational, insurance, regulatory and legal risks, among others, must all be managed effectively to safeguard our reputation. our reputation and public opinion could also be impacted by the actions and activities of other companies operating in the energy industry, particularly other energy infrastructure providers, over which we have no control. in particular, our reputation could be impacted by negative publicity related to pipeline incidents or unpopular expansion projects and due to opposition to development of hydrocarbons and energy infrastructure, particularly projects involving resources that are considered to increase ghg emissions and contribute to climate change. negative impacts from a compromised reputation or changes in public opinion (including with respect to the production, transportation and use of hydrocarbons generally) could include revenue loss, reduction in customer base, delays in obtaining, or challenges to, regulatory approvals with respect to growth projects and decreased value of our securities and our business. the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our co 2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of crude oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and ngl. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for crude oil and natural gas. the markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. as our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. to the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity price or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely eliminate our exposure to commodity prices; therefore, our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter 25 into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities and note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. a breach of information security or failure of one or more key information technology or operational (it) systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business, results of operations or business reputation. our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to, controlling our pipelines and terminals with industrial control systems, collecting and storing information and data, processing transactions, and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. attacks, including acts of terrorism or cyber sabotage, or the threat of such attacks, may adversely affect our business or reputation. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber sabotage events. for example, in 2018, a cyberattack on a shared data network forced four u.s. natural gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers. potential targets include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. the occurrence of an attack could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or could harm our business reputation. hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters, as well as subsidence and coastal erosion, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters or could be impacted by subsidence and coastal erosion. these natural disasters and phenomena could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. in the third quarter of 2017, hurricane harvey caused disruptions in our operations and damage to our assets near the texas gulf coast requiring approximately $45 million in repair costs, approximately $10 million of which was not recoverable through insurance. for more information regarding the impact of hurricane harvey on our assets and operating results, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of weather, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. these climate-related changes could damage physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. in addition, we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. natural disasters and phenomena can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters . 26 substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located is owned by third parties. if we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected. we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others. while our interstate natural gas pipelines in the u.s. have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2 , or crude oil and the laws of the particular state. in any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. if we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases. if we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and a substantial increase in our costs. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals. the increased financial reporting and other obligations of management resulting from kml's obligations as a public company may divert management's attention away from other business operations. kml, in which we own an approximate 70% interest, completed its ipo in canada in may of 2017 and in 2018, completed the sale of its interest in the tmpl as described under item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations general kml sale of trans mountain pipeline system and its expansion project. certain of our officers and directors also serve as officers and directors of kml, and we provide financial reporting support and other services as requested by kml and its controlled affiliates pursuant to a services agreement. the increased obligations associated with providing support to kml as a public company may divert our management's attention from other business concerns and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to financial reporting and other obligations that place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, legal, internal audit and accounting resources. the demands on our personnel related to kml's obligations as a public company will be intensified as a result of the management and personnel departures and related transition following the sale of our interest in the tmpl. if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly richard d. kinder, our executive chairman and one of our founders, steve kean, our chief executive officer, and kim dang, our president. along with the other members of our senior management, mssrs. kinder and kean and ms. dang have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean, ms. dang or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our terminals business segment is subject to u.s. dollar/canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations as a result of operations in canada. we are a u.s. dollar reporting company. as a result of the operations of our terminals business segment in canada, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in canadian dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rate between u.s. and canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the u.s. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders' equity under applicable accounting rules. 27 our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums. our insurance program may not cover all operational risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets subsequent to certain hurricanes and natural disasters have made it more difficult and more expensive to obtain certain types of coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or failure by one or more of our insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover our assets. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. there is no assurance that our insurers will renew their insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $36.6 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or ebitda, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets, or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 9 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee agreement) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn reduce our cash flows and limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities. 28 also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2018, approximately $11.4 billion of our approximately $36.6 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service variable-rate debt would increase, as would our costs to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. acquisitions and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. we have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. if our internally generated cash flows are not sufficient to fund one or more capital projects or acquisitions, we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more limiting restrictions. our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. our and our customer's access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions' policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. our and our customer's access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions' policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. public opinion toward industries linked to fossil fuels continues to evolve. concerns about the potential effects of climate change have caused some to direct their attention towards sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in energy-related activities. ultimately, this could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities, and consequently could both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects. risks related to ownership of our capital stock the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock. these reflect our current judgment, but as with any estimate, they may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this report. if our board of directors elects to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. 29 conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed above under risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions . our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-u.s. citizens within the meaning of the jones act. these restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-u.s. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. the jones act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by u.s. citizens, as defined under the jones act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade. as a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a u.s. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to 22%. these redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the u.s. further, those stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. in addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-u.s. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders. risks related to regulation the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, the neb, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc, the cpuc, or the neb to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 18 litigation, environmental and other contingencies to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. in addition, following the 2017 tax reform, which reduced the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, the ferc initiated the form 501-g process to review the estimated impact of the 2017 tax reform on interstate pipelines with respect to tax recovery in existing jurisdictional rates. see note 18 litigation, environmental and other contingencies ferc proceedings to our consolidated financial statements. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. new laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities. legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. in addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the current u.s. presidential administration because it remains unclear specifically what the current administration may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state, provincial and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the costs of raw materials, such as steel, which may be affected by tariffs or otherwise; (vii) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (viii) the acquisition of other businesses; (ix) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services 30 or facilities; (x) reporting and information posting requirements; (xi) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xii) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, unexpected policy changes or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, such as the 2017 tax reform and the resulting form 501-g process initiated by ferc, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business regulation . environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act, the oil pollution act or analogous state or provincial laws as a result of the presence or release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances into or through the environment, and these laws may require response actions and remediation and may impose liability for natural resource and other damages. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations including required permits and other approvals also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could harm our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under the regulatory schemes of the various canadian provinces, such as british columbia's environmental management act, canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. for example, the federal clean air act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws are subject to periodic review and amendment, which could result in more stringent emission control requirements obligating us to make significant capital expenditures at our facilities . there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters. 31 increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity at the federal, state and provincial level. there are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. climate change and related regulation could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of ghgs such as methane and co 2 , including the epa programs to control ghg emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. existing epa regulations require us to report ghg emissions in the u.s. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated ngl, and production of naturally occurring co 2 (for example, from our mcelmo dome co 2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. proposed approaches to further regulate ghg emissions include establishing ghg cap and trade programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties (c) narrative description of business environmental matters climate change. adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our ghg emissions, pay taxes related to our ghg emissions and administer and manage a ghg emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to ghgs, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. finally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. these climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. we gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or ngl from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized 32 injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or ngl and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (cftc) and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. those rules and regulations are largely complete; although in december 2016, the cftc re-proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. thus, we cannot predict how further rules and regulations will affect us. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our u.s. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or a repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and crewed by predominately u.s. citizens. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 energy commodity market risk 64 interest rate risk 65 foreign currency risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we manage these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. the derivative contracts that we use include exchange-traded and otc commodity financial instruments, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. our hedging strategy involves entering into a financial position intended to offset our physical position, or anticipated position, in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil and natural gas, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating ing a+ wells fargo a+ bank of nova scotia a+ canadian imperial bank a+ jp morgan a+ as discussed above, the principal use of energy commodity derivative contracts is to mitigate the market price risk associated with anticipated transactions for the purchase and sale of natural gas, ngl and crude oil. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. we measure the risk of price changes in the crude oil, natural gas and ngl derivative instruments portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. a hypothetical 10% movement in the 64 underlying commodity prices would have the following effect on the associated derivative contracts' estimated fair value (in millions): as of december 31, commodity derivative 2018 2017 crude oil $ 97 $ 125 natural gas 12 15 ngl 6 10 total $ 115 $ 150 as discussed above, we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities and, therefore both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts' portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the crude oil, natural gas and ngl portfolios of derivative contracts assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt. we are generally subject to interest rate risk upon refinancing maturing debt. below are our debt balances, including debt fair value adjustments and the preferred interest in kmgp, and sensitivity to interest rates (in millions): december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 carrying value estimated fair value(c) carrying value estimated fair value(c) fixed rate debt(a) $ 36,480 $ 36,647 $ 37,041 $ 39,255 variable rate debt $ 844 $ 822 $ 802 $ 795 notional principal amount of fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements 10,575 9,575 debt balances subject to variable interest rates(b) $ 11,419 $ 10,377 _______ (a) a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , would result in changes of approximately $1,638 million and $1,525 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. (b) a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 52 and 50 basis points, respectively, in 2018 and 2017 ) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $59 million and $52 million , respectively, in our 2018 and 2017 annual pre-tax earnings. (c) fair values were determined using quoted market prices, where applicable, or future cash flows discounted at market rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of converting a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are 65 entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2018 , including debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps but excluding our debt fair value adjustments, approximately 31% of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency risk as of december 31, 2018, we had a notional principal amount of $1,358 million of cross-currency swap agreements that effectively convert all of our fixed-rate euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to u.s. dollar denominated debt at fixed rates. these swaps eliminate the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency denominated debt. as of december 31, 2018, we had a notional principal amount of c$2,450 million (u.s.$1,888 million) of cross-currency swap agreements that result in our selling fixed c$ and receiving fixed u.s.$. these swaps effectively hedged the foreign currency risk associated with a substantial portion of our share of the tmpl sale proceeds that kml distributed to us on january 3, 2019, at which time the cross-currency currency swaps also expired.risk factors 20 risk factors below and at the beginning of this report in information regarding forward-looking statements , there are factors that could affect our ability to carry out our strategy or affect its level of success even if carried out. we regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and full and partial divestitures, and we are currently contemplating potential transactions. any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable 6 terms and conditions, and, as applicable, receipt of fairness opinions, and approval of our board of directors. while there are currently no unannounced purchase or sale agreements for the acquisition or sale of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. business segments natural gas pipelines our natural gas pipelines business segment includes interstate and intrastate pipelines, underground storage facilities and our lng liquefaction and terminal facilities, and includes both ferc regulated and non-ferc regulated assets. our primary businesses in this segment consist of natural gas transportation, storage, sales, gathering, processing and treating, and various lng services. within this segment are: (i) approximately 45,000 miles of wholly owned natural gas pipelines and (ii) our equity interests in entities that have approximately 26,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, along with associated storage and supply lines for these transportation networks, which are strategically located throughout the north american natural gas pipeline grid. our transportation network provides access to the major natural gas supply areas and consumers in the western u.s., louisiana, texas, northeast, rocky mountain, midwest and southeastern regions. our lng terminal facilities also serve natural gas market areas in the southeast. the following tables summarize our significant natural gas pipelines business segment assets, as of december 31, 2019 . the design capacity represents transmission, gathering, regasification or liquefaction capacity, depending on the nature of the asset. asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region north region tgp 11,775 12.12 80 marcellus, utica, gulf coast, haynesville, and eagle ford shale supply basins; northeast, southeast, gulf coast and u.s.-mexico border markets ngpl (50%) 9,100 7.60 288 chicago and other midwest markets and all central u.s. supply basins; north to south deliveries, including deliveries to lng facilities and to the u.s.-mexico border markets kmlp 135 3.00 columbia gulf, anr pipeline company and various other pipeline interconnects; cheniere sabine pass lng and industrial markets south region sng (50%) 6,930 4.40 66 louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, georgia, south carolina and tennessee markets; basins in texas, oklahoma, louisiana, mississippi and alabama florida gas transmission (citrus) (50%) 5,360 3.90 texas to florida; basins along louisiana and texas gulf coast, mobile bay and offshore gulf of mexico mep (50%) 515 1.80 oklahoma and north texas supply with interconnects to transco, columbia gulf, sng and various other pipelines elba express 190 1.10 south carolina to georgia; connects to sng, transco, slng, elc and dominion energy carolina gas transmission fep (50%) 185 2.00 arkansas to mississippi; connects to ngpl, trunkline gas company, texas gas transmission and anr pipeline company gulf lng holdings (50%) 5 1.50 7 near pascagoula, mississippi; connects to four interstate pipelines and a natural gas processing plant bear creek storage (75%) 59 located in louisiana; provides storage capacity to sng and tgp slng 1.76 12 located on elba island in georgia; connects to elba express, sng and dominion energy carolina gas transmission elc (51%) 0.35 located on elba island; connects to elba express delivering to slng for lng storage and ship loading; first of 10 liquefaction units placed in service september 2019. two additional units placed in service in fourth quarter 2019. 7 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region west region epng/mojave 10,665 6.38 44 permian, san juan and anadarko basins; interconnects and demand locations in california, arizona, new mexico, texas, oklahoma and mexico cig 4,290 6.00 38 rocky mountain and anadarko basins; interconnects and demand locations in colorado, wyoming, utah, montana, kansas, oklahoma and texas wic 850 3.61 rocky mountain basins; interconnects and demand locations in colorado, utah and wyoming ruby (50%)(a) 685 1.53 rocky mountain basins; interconnects and demand locations in utah, nevada, oregon and california cpgpl 415 1.20 rocky mountain basins; interconnects and demand locations in colorado and kansas transcolorado 310 0.80 san juan, permian, paradox and piceance basins; interconnects and demand locations in colorado and new mexico wyco (50%) 225 1.20 7 denver julesburg basin; interconnects with cig, wic, rockies express pipeline, young gas storage and psco's pipeline systems sierrita (35%) 60 0.20 connects with epng near tucson, arizona, to the u.s.-mexico international border crossing near sasabe, arizona to supply a third-party natural gas pipeline in mexico young gas storage (48%) 15 6 located in morgan county, colorado in the denver julesburg basin; capacity is committed to cig and colorado springs utilities keystone gas storage 15 6 located in the permian basin near the waha natural gas trading hub in west texas midstream km texas and tejas pipelines(b) 5,845 7.80 132 [0.51] texas gulf coast supply and markets mier-monterrey pipeline(b) 90 0.65 starr county, texas to monterrey, mexico; connects to cenegas national system and multiple power plants in monterrey km north texas pipeline(b) 80 0.33 interconnect from ngpl; connects to a 1,750-megawatt forney, texas, power plant and a 1,000-megawatt paris, texas, power plant gulf coast express pipeline (34%) 520 2.00 permian basin to the agua dulce, texas area oklahoma oklahoma system 4,035 0.73 [0.13] hunton dewatering, woodford shale, anadarko basin and mississippi lime, arkoma basin cedar cove (70%) 115 0.03 oklahoma stack, capacity excludes third-party offloads south texas south texas system 1,180 1.93 [1.02] eagle ford shale, woodbine and eaglebine formations webb/duval gas gathering system (63%) 145 0.15 south texas camino real 75 0.15 south texas, eagle ford shale formation eaglehawk (25%) 530 1.20 south texas, eagle ford shale formation km altamont 1,460 0.1 [0.10] utah, uinta basin red cedar (49%) 900 0.33 la plata county, colorado, ignacio blanco field rocky mountain fort union (42.595%) 315 1.25 powder river basin (wyoming) bighorn (51%) 290 0.60 powder river basin (wyoming) kinderhawk 520 2.35 northwest louisiana, haynesville and bossier shale formations 8 asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline design (bcf/d) capacity storage (bcf) [processing (bcf/d)] capacity supply and market region north texas 545 0.14 [0.10] north barnett shale combo km treating odessa, texas, other locations in tyler and victoria, texas hiland - williston - gas 2,065 0.62 [0.33] bakken/three forks shale formations - natural gas gathering and processing (mbbl/d) (mbbl) liquids/condensate pipelines liberty pipeline (50%) 85 140 y-grade pipeline from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast south texas ngl pipelines 340 115 ethane and propane pipelines from houston central complex to the texas gulf coast utopia pipeline (50%) 265 50 harrison county, ohio extending to windsor, ontario cypress pipeline (50%) 105 56 mont belvieu, texas to lake charles, louisiana eaglehawk - condensate (25%) 400 220 60 south texas, eagle ford shale formation _______ (a) we operate ruby and own the common interest in ruby. pembina owns the remaining interest in ruby in the form of a convertible preferred interest and has 50% voting rights. if pembina converted its preferred interest into common interest, we and pembina would each own a 50% common interest in ruby. (b) collectively referred to as texas intrastate natural gas pipeline operations. competition the market for natural gas infrastructure is highly competitive, and new pipelines, storage facilities, treating facilities, and facilities for related services are currently being built to serve demand for natural gas in the markets served by the pipelines in our natural gas pipelines business segment. we compete with interstate and intrastate pipelines for connections to new markets and supplies and for transportation, processing and treating services. we believe the principal elements of competition in our various markets are location, rates, terms of service, flexibility, availability of alternative forms of energy and reliability of service. from time to time, projects are proposed that compete with our existing assets. whether or when any such projects would be built, or the extent of their impact on our operations or profitability is typically not known. shippers on our natural gas pipelines compete with other forms of energy available to their natural gas customers and end users, including renewables such as wind and solar, oil, coal and nuclear. several factors influence the demand for natural gas, including price changes, the availability of supply, other forms of energy, the level of business activity, conservation, legislation and governmental regulations, the ability to convert to alternative fuels and weather. 9 products pipelines our products pipelines business segment consists of our refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate pipelines, and associated terminals, southeast terminals, our condensate processing facility and our transmix processing facilities. the following summarizes the significant products pipelines business segment assets that we own and operate as of december 31, 2019 : asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline number of terminals (a) or locations terminal capacity(mmbbl) supply and market region crude &amp; condensate km crude &amp; condensate pipeline 264 5 2.6 eagle ford shale field in south texas (dewitt, karnes, and gonzales counties) to the houston ship channel refining complex camino real gathering 68 1 0.1 south texas, eagle ford shale formation hiland - williston basin - oil(b) 1,595 7 0.9 bakken/three forks shale formations - crude oil gathering and transporting double h pipeline(b) 512 bakken shale in montana and north dakota to guernsey, wyoming double eagle pipeline (50%) 204 2 0.6 live oak county, texas; corpus christi, texas; karnes county, texas; and lasalle county km condensate processing facility (kmcc - splitter) 1 2.0 houston ship channel, galena park, texas southeast refined products plantation pipeline (51%) 3,182 louisiana to washington d.c. central florida pipeline 206 2 2.5 tampa to orlando southeast terminals 25 8.9 from mississippi through virginia, including tennessee transmix operations 5 0.6 colton, california; richmond, virginia; dorsey junction, maryland; st. louis, missouri; and greensboro, north carolina west coast refined products pacific (sfpp) (99.5%) 2,845 13 15.1 six western states calnev 566 2 2.0 colton, california to las vegas, nevada; mojave region west coast terminals 38 8 9.9 seattle, portland, san francisco and los angeles areas _______ (a) the terminals provide services including short-term product storage, truck loading, vapor handling, additive injection, dye injection and ethanol blending. (b) collectively referred to as bakken crude assets. competition our products pipelines' pipeline and terminal operations compete against proprietary pipelines and terminals owned and operated by major oil companies, other independent products pipelines and terminals, trucking and marine transportation firms (for short-haul movements of products). our railcars and our transmix operations compete with refineries owned by major oil companies and independent transmix facilities. terminals our terminals business segment includes the operations of our refined petroleum product, chemical, ethanol and other liquid terminal facilities (other than those included in the products pipelines business segment) and all of our petroleum coke, metal and ores facilities. our terminals are located throughout the u.s., primarily near large urban centers. we believe the location of our facilities and our ability to provide flexibility to customers help attract new and retain existing customers at our terminals and provide expansion opportunities. we often classify our terminal operations based on the handling of either liquids or dry-bulk material products. in addition, our terminals' marine operations include jones act-qualified product 10 tankers that provide marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined petroleum products between u.s. ports. the following summarizes our terminals business segment assets, as of december 31, 2019 : number capacity (mmbbl) liquids terminals 50 79.5 bulk terminals 32 jones act-qualified tankers 16 5.3 competition we are one of the largest independent operators of liquids terminals in north america, based on barrels of liquids terminaling capacity. our liquids terminals compete with other publicly or privately held independent liquids terminals, and terminals owned by oil, chemical, pipeline, and refining companies. our bulk terminals compete with numerous independent terminal operators, terminals owned by producers and distributors of bulk commodities, stevedoring companies and other industrial companies opting not to outsource terminaling services. in some locations, competitors are smaller, independent operators with lower cost structures. our jones act-qualified product tankers compete with other jones act-qualified vessel fleets. co 2 our co 2 business segment produces, transports, and markets co 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery projects as a flooding medium for recovering crude oil from mature oil fields. our co 2 pipelines and related assets allow us to market a complete package of co 2 supply and transportation services to our customers. we also hold ownership interests in several oil-producing fields and own a crude oil pipeline, all located in the permian basin region of west texas. source and transportation activities co 2 resource interests our principal market for co 2 is for injection into mature oil fields in the permian basin. our ownership of co 2 resources as of december 31, 2019 includes: ownership interest % compression capacity (bcf/d) location mcelmo dome unit 45 1.5 colorado doe canyon deep unit 87 0.2 colorado bravo dome unit(a) 11 0.3 new mexico _______ (a) we do not operate this unit. co 2 pipelines the principal market for transportation on our co 2 pipelines is to customers, including ourselves, using co 2 for enhanced recovery operations in mature oil fields in the permian basin, where industry demand is expected to remain stable in the foreseeable future. the tariffs charged on (i) the wink crude oil pipeline system are regulated by both the ferc and the texas railroad commission; (ii) the pecos carbon dioxide pipeline are regulated by the texas railroad commission; and (iii) the cortez pipeline are based on a consent decree. our other co 2 pipelines are not regulated. 11 our ownership of co 2 and crude oil pipelines as of december 31, 2019 includes: asset (kmi ownership shown if not 100%) miles of pipeline transport capacity (bcf/d) supply and market region co 2 pipelines cortez pipeline (53%) 569 1.5 mcelmo dome and doe canyon source fields to the denver city, texas hub central basin pipeline 337 0.7 cortez, bravo, sheep mountain, canyon reef carriers, and pecos pipelines bravo pipeline (13%)(a) 218 0.4 bravo dome to the denver city, texas hub canyon reef carriers pipeline (98%) 163 0.3 mccamey, texas, to the sacroc, sharon ridge, cogdell and reinecke units centerline co 2 pipeline 113 0.3 between denver city, texas and snyder, texas eastern shelf co 2 pipeline 98 0.1 between snyder, texas and knox city, texas pecos pipeline (95%) 25 0.1 mccamey, texas, to iraan, texas, delivers to the yates unit (bbls/d) crude oil pipeline wink pipeline 433 145,000 west texas to western refining's refinery in el paso, texas _______ (a) we do not operate bravo pipeline. oil and gas producing activities oil producing interests our ownership interests in oil-producing fields located in the permian basin of west texas as of december 31, 2019 include the following: kmi gross working developed interest % acres sacroc 97 49,156 yates 50 9,576 goldsmith landreth san andres 99 6,166 katz strawn 99 7,194 reinecke 70 3,793 sharon ridge(a) 14 2,619 tall cotton 100 641 midcross(a) 13 320 _______ (a) we do not operate these fields. our oil and gas producing activities are not significant; therefore, we do not include the supplemental information on oil and gas producing activities under accounting standards codification topic 932, extractive activities - oil and gas. 12 gas and gasoline plant interests owned and operated gas plants in the permian basin of west texas as of december 31, 2019 include: ownership interest % source snyder gasoline plant(a) 22 the sacroc unit and neighboring co 2 projects, specifically the sharon ridge and cogdell units diamond m gas plant 51 snyder gasoline plant north snyder plant 100 snyder gasoline plant _______ (a) this is a working interest, in addition, we have a 28% net profits interest. competition our primary competitors for the sale of co 2 include suppliers that have an ownership interest in mcelmo dome, bravo dome and sheep mountain co 2 resources. our ownership interests in the central basin, cortez and bravo pipelines are in direct competition with other co 2 pipelines. we also compete with other interest owners in the mcelmo dome unit and the bravo dome unit for transportation of co 2 to the denver city, texas market area. major customers our revenue is derived from a wide customer base. for each of the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated revenues. we do not believe that a loss of revenues from any single customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. regulation interstate natural gas transportation and storage regulation as an owner and operator of natural gas companies subject to the natural gas act of 1938, we are required to provide service to shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities at regulated rates that have been determined by the ferc to be just and reasonable. recourse rates and general terms and conditions for service are set forth in posted tariffs approved by the ferc for each pipeline (including storage facilities or companies as used herein). generally, recourse rates are based on our cost of service, including recovery of, and a return on, our investment. posted tariff rates are deemed just and reasonable and cannot be changed without ferc authorization following an evidentiary hearing or settlement. the ferc can initiate proceedings, on its own initiative or in response to a shipper complaint, that could result in a rate change or confirm existing rates. posted tariff rates set the general range of maximum and minimum rates we charge shippers on our interstate natural gas pipelines. within that range, each pipeline is permitted to charge discounted rates, so long as such discounts are offered to all similarly situated shippers and granted without undue discrimination. apart from discounted rates, upon mutual agreement, the pipeline is permitted to charge negotiated rates that are not bound by and are irrespective of changes that may occur to the range of tariff-based maximum and minimum rate levels. negotiated rates provide certainty to the pipeline and the shipper of agreed-upon rates during the term of the transportation agreement, regardless of changes to the posted tariff rates. the actual negotiated rate agreement or a summary of such agreement must be posted as part of the pipelines' tariffs. while pipelines and their shippers may agree to a variety of negotiated rate structures depending on the shipper and circumstance, pipelines generally must use for all shippers the form of service agreement that is contained within their ferc-approved tariff. any deviation from the pro forma service agreements must be filed with the ferc and only certain types of deviations in the terms and conditions of service are acceptable to the ferc. the ferc regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service, construction and abandonment of facilities by companies performing interstate natural gas transportation services, including storage services, under the natural gas act of 1938. to a lesser extent, the ferc regulates interstate transportation rates, terms and conditions of service under the natural gas policy act of 1978. beginning in the mid-1980s, the ferc adopted a number of regulatory changes to ensure that interstate natural gas pipelines operated on a not unduly discriminatory basis and to create a more competitive and transparent environment in the natural gas marketplace. examples include ferc regulations requiring interstate natural gas pipelines to separate their 13 traditional merchant sales services from their transportation and storage services and provide comparable transportation and storage services with respect to all natural gas customers. also, natural gas pipelines must separately state the applicable rates for each unbundled service they provide (i.e., for transportation services and storage services for natural gas). to ensure a competitive transportation market, these pipelines must adhere to certain scheduling procedures, accept capacity segmentation in certain circumstances and abide by ferc-established standards of conduct when communicating with marketing affiliates. in addition to regulatory changes initiated by the ferc, the u.s. congress passed the energy policy act of 2005. among other things, the energy policy act amended the natural gas act to: (i) prohibit market manipulation by any entity; (ii) direct the ferc to facilitate market transparency in the market for sale or transportation of physical natural gas in interstate commerce; and (iii) significantly increase the penalties for violations of the natural gas act, the natural gas policy act of 1978, or ferc rules, regulations or orders thereunder. interstate common carrier refined petroleum products and oil pipeline rate regulation some of our u.s. refined petroleum products and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines are interstate common carrier pipelines, subject to regulation by the ferc under the interstate commerce act, or ica. the ica requires that we maintain our tariffs on file with the ferc. those tariffs set forth the rates we charge for providing gathering or transportation services on our interstate common liquids carrier pipelines as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. the ica requires, among other things, that such rates on interstate common liquids carrier pipelines be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. the ica permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes the ferc to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. if, upon completion of an investigation, the ferc finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. the ferc also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint. the energy policy act of 1992 deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or that were in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period to be just and reasonable or grandfathered under the ica. the energy policy act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. certain rates on our sfpp operations' pipeline system were subject to protest during the 365-day period established by the energy policy act. accordingly, certain of the sfpp pipelines' rates have been, and continue to be, the subject of complaints with the ferc, as is more fully described in note 18 litigation and environmental to our consolidated financial statements. petroleum products and crude oil pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline's increase in costs from the previous year. a petroleum products or crude oil pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates. cpuc rate regulation the intrastate common carrier operations of our west coast refined products operations' pipelines in california are subject to regulation by the cpuc under a depreciated book plant methodology, which is based on an original cost measure of investment. intrastate tariffs filed by us with the cpuc have been established on the basis of revenues, expenses and investments allocated as applicable to the california intrastate portion of the west coast refined products operations' business. tariff rates with respect to intrastate pipeline service in california are subject to challenge by complaint by interested parties or by independent action of the cpuc. a variety of factors can affect the rates of return permitted by the cpuc, and certain other issues similar to those which have arisen with respect to our ferc regulated rates also could arise with respect to its intrastate rates. the intrastate rates for movements in california on our sfpp and calnev systems have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints before the cpuc. railroad commission of texas (rct) rate regulation the intrastate operations of our crude oil and liquids pipelines and natural gas pipelines and storage facilities in texas are subject to regulation with respect to such intrastate transportation by the rct. the rct has the authority to regulate our rates, though it generally has not investigated the rates or practices of our intrastate pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints. 14 mexico - energy regulatory commission the mier-monterrey pipeline has a natural gas transportation permit granted by the energy regulatory commission of mexico (the commission) that defines the conditions for the pipeline to carry out activity and provide natural gas transportation service. this permit expires in 2026. this permit establishes certain restrictive conditions, including without limitation: (i) compliance with the general conditions for the provision of natural gas transportation service; (ii) compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety; (iii) compliance with the technical and economic specifications of the natural gas transportation system authorized by the commission; (iv) compliance with certain technical studies established by the commission; and (v) compliance with a minimum contributed capital not entitled to withdrawal of at least the equivalent of 10% of the investment proposed in the project. mexico - national agency for industrial safety and environmental protection (asea) asea regulates environmental compliance and industrial and operational safety. the mier-monterrey pipeline must satisfy and maintain asea's requirements, including compliance with certain safety measures, contingency plans, maintenance plans and the official standards of mexico regarding safety, including a safety administration program. safety regulation we are also subject to safety regulations issued by phmsa, including those requiring us to develop and maintain pipeline integrity management programs to evaluate areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas, or hcas, and moderate consequence areas, or mcas, where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. during september 2019, phmsa finalized rules to be effective july 1, 2020 to expand integrity management program requirements to hazardous liquids pipelines outside of hcas (with some exceptions) and to make certain other changes to those program requirements, including data integration and emphasis on the use of in-line inspection technology. during october 2019, phmsa finalized rules to require operators of natural gas pipelines to (i) expand integrity management program requirements outside of hcas (with some exceptions), and (ii) reconfirm maximum allowable operating pressure (maop) on certain pipelines in populated areas including hcas. the maop reconfirmations must be completed by 2035. changes in technology such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional integrity threats and changes to phmsa regulations can have a significant impact on costs to perform integrity testing and repairs. we will continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by phmsa regulations. the costs to comply with integrity management program requirements are difficult to predict. tests performed as part of our program could result in significant capital and operating expenditures for upgrades and/or repairs deemed necessary to continue the safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. we expect to increase expenditures in the future to comply with these phmsa regulations. the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or pipes act of 2016 requires phmsa, among other regulators, to set minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities and allows states to set more stringent standards for intrastate pipelines. in compliance with the pipes act of 2016, we have implemented procedures for underground natural gas storage facilities. the pipeline safety, regulatory certainty, and job creation act of 2011, which was signed into law in 2012, increased penalties for violations of safety laws and rules and may result in the imposition of more stringent regulations in the future. in 2012, phmsa issued an advisory bulletin which, among other things, advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine maximum pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and complete. locating such records and, in the absence of any such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the advisory bulletin requirements, could significantly increase our costs. additionally, failure to locate such records to verify maximum pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity management regulation, and actual expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. regulations, changes to regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. repair, remediation, and preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. 15 from time to time, our pipelines or facilities may experience leaks and ruptures. these leaks and ruptures may cause explosions, fire, damage to the environment, damage to property and/or personal injury or death. in connection with these incidents, we may be sued for damages. depending upon the facts and circumstances of a particular incident, state and federal regulatory authorities may seek civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. we are also subject to the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration (osha) and other federal and state agencies that address employee health and safety. in general, we believe current expenditures are fulfilling the osha requirements and protecting the health and safety of our employees. based on new regulatory developments, we may increase expenditures in the future to comply with higher industry and regulatory safety standards. however, such increases in our expenditures, and the extent to which they might be offset, cannot be estimated at this time. state and local regulation certain of our activities are subject to various state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, pollution, protection of the environment, and human health and safety. marine operations the operation of tankers and marine equipment create maritime obligations involving property, personnel and cargo under general maritime law. these obligations create a variety of risks including, among other things, the risk of collision, which may result in claims for personal injury, cargo, contract, pollution, third-party claims and property damages to vessels and facilities. we are subject to the jones act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation (between u.s. departure and destination points) to vessels built and registered in the u.s. and owned and crewed by u.s. citizens. as a result, we monitor the foreign ownership of our common stock and under certain circumstances consistent with our certificate of incorporation, we have the right to redeem shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens. if we do not comply with such requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in u.s. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. furthermore, from time to time, legislation has been introduced unsuccessfully in the u.s. congress to amend the jones act to ease or remove the requirement that vessels operating between u.s. ports be built and registered in the u.s. and owned and crewed by u.s. citizens. if the jones act were amended in such fashion, we could face competition from foreign-flagged vessels. in addition, the u.s. coast guard and the american bureau of shipping maintain the most stringent regime of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for u.s.-flag operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. the jones act and general maritime law also provide damage remedies for crew members injured in the service of the vessel arising from employer negligence or vessel unseaworthiness. the merchant marine act of 1936 is a federal law that provides the u.s. secretary of transportation, upon proclamation by the u.s. president of a national emergency or a threat to the national security, the authority to requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by u.s. citizens (including us, provided that we are considered a u.s. citizen for this purpose). if one of our vessels were purchased or requisitioned by the u.s. government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire. however, we would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages suffered as a result of such purchase or requisition. canadian regulation the utopia pipeline system, owned by a joint venture that we operate and in which we own a 50% interest, originates in ohio and terminates in windsor, ontario, canada and is therefore subject to u.s. regulation as described in this section and below under the heading environmental matters , as well as similar regulations promulgated by canadian authorities with respect to natural gas liquids pipelines. 16 environmental matters our business operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, or at or from our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions, and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damages, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or a combination of these and other measures. furthermore, new projects may require approvals and environmental analysis under federal and state laws, including the clean water act, the national environmental policy act and the endangered species act. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, emission controls required under federal and state environmental laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities. environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations are subject to change. the long term trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, wildlife, natural resources and human health. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in accordance with gaap, we record liabilities for environmental matters when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. this policy applies to assets or businesses currently owned or previously disposed. we have accrued liabilities for estimable and probable environmental remediation obligations at various sites, including multi-party sites where the epa, or similar state or canadian agency has identified us as one of the potentially responsible parties. the involvement of other financially responsible companies at these multi-party sites could increase or mitigate our actual joint and several liability exposures. we believe that the ultimate resolution of these environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, it is possible that our ultimate liability with respect to these environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in any particular reporting period. we have accrued an environmental reserve in the amount of $259 million as of december 31, 2019 . our aggregate reserve estimate ranges in value from approximately $259 million to approximately $428 million, and we recorded our liability equal to the low end of the range, as we did not identify any amounts within the range as a better estimate of the liability. for additional information related to environmental matters, see note 18 litigation and environmental to our consolidated financial statements. hazardous and non-hazardous waste we generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state statutes. from time to time, the epa, as well as other u.s. federal and state regulators, consider the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous waste. furthermore, it is possible that some wastes that are currently classified as non-hazardous, which could include wastes currently generated during our pipeline or liquids or bulk terminal operations or wastes from oil and gas facilities that are currently exempt as exploration and production waste, may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes. hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly handling and disposal requirements than non-hazardous wastes. such changes in the regulations may result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses for us. superfund the cercla or the superfund law, and analogous state laws, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of potentially responsible persons for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of a site and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. cercla authorizes the epa and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. although petroleum is excluded from cercla's definition of a hazardous substance, in the course of our ordinary operations, we have and will generate materials that may fall within the definition of hazardous substance. by operation of law, if we are determined to be a potentially 17 responsible person, we may be responsible under cercla for all or part of the costs required to clean up sites at which such materials are present, in addition to compensation for natural resource damages, if any. clean air act our operations are subject to the clean air act, its implementing regulations, and analogous state statutes and regulations. the epa regulations under the clean air act contain requirements for the monitoring, reporting, and control of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from stationary sources. for further information, see climate change below. clean water act our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants. the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended, also known as the clean water act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls regarding the discharge of fills and pollutants into waters of the u.s. the discharge of fills and pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by applicable federal or state authorities. the oil pollution act was enacted in 1990 and amends provisions of the clean water act pertaining to prevention of and response to oil spills. spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of the clean water act and some state laws require containment and similar structures to help prevent contamination of navigable waters in the event of an overflow or release of oil. epa revisions to ozone national ambient air quality standard (naaqs) as required by the clean air act, the epa establishes national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for how much pollution is permissible, and the states then have to adopt rules so their air quality meets the naaqs. in october 2015, the epa published a rule lowering the ground level ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to a more stringent 70 ppb standard. this change triggered a process under which the epa designated the areas of the country in or out of compliance with the new naaqs standard. now, certain states will have to adopt more stringent air quality regulations to meet the new naaqs standard. these new state rules, which are expected in 2020 or 2021, will likely require the installation of more stringent air pollution controls on newly-installed equipment and possibly require the retrofitting of existing kmi facilities with air pollution controls. given the nationwide implications of the new rule, it is expected that it will have financial impacts for each of our business units. climate change due to concern over climate change, numerous proposals to monitor and limit emissions of ghgs have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the federal, state and local levels of government. methane, a primary component of natural gas, and co 2 , which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of ghgs. various laws and regulations exist or are under development to regulate the emission of such ghgs, including the epa programs to report ghg emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs. beginning in december 2009, epa published several findings and rulemakings under the clean air act requiring the permitting and reporting of certain ghgs, including co 2 and methane. our facilities are subject to these requirements. operational and/or regulatory changes could require additional facilities to comply with ghg emissions reporting and permitting requirements. on october 23, 2015, the epa published as a final rule the clean power plan, which sets interim and final co 2 emission performance rates for power generating units that are fueled by coal, oil or natural gas. the final rule is the focus of legislative discussion in the u.s. congress and litigation in federal court. on february 10, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed the final rule, effectively suspending the duty to comply with the rule until certain legal challenges are resolved. in october 2017, the epa proposed to repeal the clean power plan. in august 2018, the epa proposed to replace the clean power plan and affordable clean energy rule. the ultimate determination of the clean power plan and affordable clean energy rule remains uncertain. while we do not operate power plants that would be subject to the clean power plan or the affordable clean energy rule, it remains unclear what effect a final rule, if it comes into force, might have on the anticipated demand for natural gas, including natural gas that we gather, process, store and transport. at the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional ghg cap and trade programs. although many of the state-level initiatives have to date been 18 focused on large sources of ghg emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that sources such as our gas-fueled compressors and processing plants could become subject to related state regulations. various states are also proposing or have implemented stricter regulations for ghgs that go beyond the requirements of the epa. some of the states have implemented regulations that require additional monitoring and reporting of methane emissions. depending on the state programs pending implementation, we could be required to conduct additional monitoring, do additional emissions reporting and/or purchase and surrender emission allowances. because our operations, including the compressor stations and processing plants, emit various types of ghgs, primarily methane and co 2 , such new legislation or regulation could increase the costs related to operating and maintaining the facilities. depending on the particular law, regulation or program, we or our subsidiaries could be required to incur capital expenditures for installing new monitoring equipment or emission controls on the facilities, acquire and surrender allowances for the ghg emissions, pay taxes related to the ghg emissions and administer and manage a ghg emissions program. we are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, as is the case with similarly situated companies in our industry, they could be significant to us. while we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our or our subsidiaries' pipelines, recovery of costs in all cases is uncertain and may depend on events beyond their control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc or other regulatory bodies, and the provisions of any final legislation or other regulations. any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of hurricanes and tropical storms, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. these climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. however, the timing, severity and location of these climate change impacts are not known with certainty and, these impacts are expected to manifest themselves over varying time horizons. because the combustion of natural gas produces less ghg emissions per unit of energy than competing fossil fuels, cap-and-trade legislation or epa regulatory initiatives such as the clean power plan or affordable clean energy rule could stimulate demand for natural gas by increasing the relative cost of competing fuels such as coal and oil. in addition, we anticipate that ghg regulations will increase demand for carbon sequestration technologies, such as the techniques we have successfully demonstrated in our enhanced oil recovery operations within our co 2 business segment. however, these potential positive effects on our markets may be offset if these same regulations also cause the cost of natural gas to increase relative to competing non-fossil fuels. although we currently cannot predict the magnitude and direction of these impacts, ghg regulations could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. department of homeland security the department of homeland security, referred to in this report as the dhs, has regulatory authority over security at certain high-risk chemical facilities. the dhs has promulgated the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards and required all high-risk chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities, to comply with the regulatory requirements of these standards. this process includes completing security vulnerability assessments, developing site security plans, and implementing protective measures necessary to meet dhs-defined, risk-based performance standards. the dhs has not provided final notice to all facilities that it determines to be high risk and subject to the rule; therefore, neither the extent to which our facilities may be subject to coverage by the rules nor the associated costs to comply can currently be determined, but it is possible that such costs could be substantial. other employees we employed 11,086 full-time personnel at december 31, 2019 , including approximately 954 full-time hourly personnel at certain terminals and pipelines covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2020 and 2023. we consider relations with our employees to be good. most of our employees are employed by us and a limited number of our subsidiaries and provide services to one or more of our business units. the direct costs of compensation, benefits expenses, employer taxes and other employer expenses for these employees are allocated to our subsidiaries. our human resources department provides the administrative support necessary to implement these payroll and benefits services, and the related administrative costs are allocated to our subsidiaries pursuant to 19 our board-approved expense allocation policy. the effect of these arrangements is that each business unit bears the direct compensation and employee benefits costs of its assigned or partially assigned employees, as the case may be, while also bearing its allocable share of administrative costs. properties we believe that we generally have satisfactory title to the properties we own and use in our businesses, subject to liens for current taxes, liens incident to minor encumbrances, and easements and restrictions, which do not materially detract from the value of such property, the interests in those properties or the use of such properties in our businesses. our terminals, storage facilities, treating and processing plants, regulator and compressor stations, oil and gas wells, offices and related facilities are located on real property owned or leased by us. in some cases, the real property we lease is on federal, state or local government land. we generally do not own the land on which our pipelines are constructed. instead, we obtain and maintain rights to construct and operate the pipelines on other people's land generally under agreements that are perpetual or provide for renewal rights. substantially all of our pipelines are constructed on rights-of-way granted by the apparent record owners of such property. in many instances, lands over which rights-of-way have been obtained are subject to prior liens that have not been subordinated to the right-of-way grants. in some cases, not all of the apparent record owners have joined in the right-of-way grants, but in substantially all such cases, signatures of the owners of a majority of the interests have been obtained. permits have been obtained from public authorities to cross over or under, or to lay facilities in or along, water courses, county roads, municipal streets and state highways, and in some instances, such permits are revocable at the election of the grantor, or, the pipeline may be required to move its facilities at its own expense. permits also have been obtained from railroad companies to run along or cross over or under lands or rights-of-way, many of which are also revocable at the grantor's election. some such permits require annual or other periodic payments. in a few minor cases, property for pipeline purposes was purchased by the company. financial information about geographic areas for geographic information concerning our assets and operations, see note 16 reportable segments to our consolidated financial statements. available information we make available free of charge on or through our internet website, at www.kindermorgan.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our internet website is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document. realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. risks related to operating our business our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle. our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities, including the availability of expansion opportunities, depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve. our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for natural gas, oil, ngl, refined petroleum products, co 2 , steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand. for example, without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise. producers may reduce or shut down production during times of lower product prices or higher production costs to the extent they become uneconomic. producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. commodity 20 prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. changes in the business environment, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, or higher development or production costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets. in addition, changes in the overall demand for hydrocarbons, the regulatory environment or applicable governmental policies, including in relation to climate change or other environmental concerns, may have a negative impact on the supply of crude oil and other products. in recent years, a number of initiatives and regulatory changes relating to reducing ghg emissions have been undertaken by federal, state and municipal governments and oil and gas industry participants. in addition, public sentiment surrounding the potential risks posed by climate change and emerging technologies have resulted in an increased demand for energy efficiency and a transition to energy provided from renewable energy sources, rather than fossil fuels, and fuel-efficient alternatives such as hybrid and electric vehicles. these factors could result in not only increased costs for producers of hydrocarbons but also an overall decrease in the demand for hydrocarbons. each of the foregoing could negatively impact our business directly as well as our shippers and other customers, which in turn could negatively impact our prospects for new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts or the ability of our customers and shippers to honor their contractual commitments. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us below. we cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for the products we handle. in addition, irrespective of supply of or demand for products we handle, implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on us. see the ferc or the cpuc may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc, or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. expanding our existing assets and constructing new assets is part of our growth strategy. our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, permits and rights-of-way, as well as public opposition, increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays. should we pursue expansion of or construction of new projects through joint ventures with others, we will share control of and any benefits from those projects. we regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets. new growth projects generally will be subject to, among other things, the receipt of regulatory approvals, feasibility and cost analyses, funding availability and industry, market and demand conditions. if we pursue joint ventures with third parties, those parties may share approval rights over major decisions, and may act in their own interests. their views may differ from our own or our views of the interests of the venture which could result in operational delays or impasses, which in turn could affect the financial expectations of and our expected benefits from the venture. a variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in or cancellations of our construction projects. regulatory authorities may modify their permitting policies in ways that disadvantage our construction projects, such as the ferc's consideration of changes to its certificate policy statement. such factors can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects. see we are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion. for example, changing public attitudes toward pipelines bearing fossil fuels may impede our ability to secure rights-of-way or governmental reviews and authorizations on a timely basis or at all. inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction. significant increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns or delays, or our inability to obtain a required permit or right-of-way, could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. we face competition from other pipelines and terminals, as well as other forms of transportation and storage. competition is a factor affecting our existing businesses and our ability to secure new project opportunities. any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation (such as barge, rail or truck) that delivers the products we handle into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors. likewise, competing terminals or other storage options may become more attractive to our customers. to the extent that competitors offer the markets we serve more desirable transportation or storage options, or customers opt to construct their own facilities for services previously provided by us, this could result in unused capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals. we also could experience competition for the supply of the products we handle 21 from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us. if capacity on our assets remains unused, our ability to re-contract for expiring capacity at favorable rates or otherwise retain existing customers could be impaired. the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. the revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. our co 2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, ngl and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our natural gas pipelines business segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our product pipelines business segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, ngl and natural gas prices. for 2020 , we estimate that every $1 change in the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact our dcf by approximately $5 million, each $0.10 per mmbtu change in the average price of natural gas would impact dcf by approximately $1 million, and each 1% change in the ratio of the weighted average ngl price per barrel to the average wti crude oil price per barrel would impact dcf by approximately $2 million. prices for oil, ngl and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, ngl and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control. these factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the u.s.; (ii) domestic and global economic conditions; (iii) the activities of the organization of petroleum exporting countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in oil producing countries; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; (viii) the proximity and availability of storage and transportation infrastructure and processing and treating facilities; and (ix) the availability and prices of alternative fuel sources. we use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks. please read our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. a sharp decline in the prices of oil, ngl or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, ngl, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our co 2 business segment's proved reserves. if prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. in recent decades, there have been periods worldwide of both overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons, and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis. these periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. the cycles of excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas have placed pressures on prices and resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. these fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process. for more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk-energy commodity market risk . commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. there are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to the transportation and storage of the products we handle, such as leaks; releases; the breakdown, underperformance or failure of equipment, facilities, information systems or processes; damage to our pipelines caused by third-party construction; the compromise of information and control systems; spills at terminals and hubs; spills associated with the loading and unloading of harmful substances at rail facilities; adverse sea conditions (including storms and rising sea levels) and releases or spills from our shipping vessels or vessels loaded at our marine terminals; operator error; labor disputes/work stoppages; disputes with interconnected facilities and carriers; operational disruptions or apportionment on third-party systems or refineries on which our assets depend; and catastrophic events such as natural disasters, fires, floods, explosions, earthquakes, acts of terrorists and saboteurs, cyber security breaches, and other similar events, many of which are beyond our control. additional risks to our vessels include capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. the occurrence of any of these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution, significant reputational damage, impairment or suspension of operations, fines or other regulatory penalties, and revocation of regulatory approvals or imposition of new requirements, any of which also 22 could result in substantial financial losses, including lost revenue and cash flow to the extent that an incident causes an interruption of service. for pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater. in addition, the consequences of any operational incident (including as a result of adverse sea conditions) at one of our marine terminals may be even more significant as a result of the complexities involved in addressing leaks and releases occurring in the ocean or along coastlines and/or the repair of marine terminals. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. unfavorable economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. in addition, uncertain or changing economic conditions within one or more geographic regions may affect our operating results within the affected regions. sustained unfavorable commodity prices, volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. see financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, ngl and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. see the volatility of oil, ngl and natural gas prices could adversely affect our co 2 business segment and businesses within our natural gas pipelines and products pipelines business segments. if economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) globally, in the u.s. or in other key markets become more volatile or deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. we are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers. many of our counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations or debt or equity financing, and some of them may be highly leveraged. our counterparties are subject to their own operating, market, financial and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. oil, ngl and natural gas prices were all lower on average in 2019 compared to 2018, and natural gas prices have continued to decline so far in 2020. further deterioration in oil prices, or a continuation of the existing low natural gas or ngl price environment, would likely cause severe financial distress to some of our customers with direct commodity price exposure and may result in additional customer bankruptcies. further, the security that is permitted to be obtained from such customers may be limited by ferc regulation. while certain of our customers are subsidiaries of an entity that has an investment grade credit rating, in many cases the parent entity has not guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary and, therefore, the parent's credit ratings may have no bearing on such customers' ability to pay us for the services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. furthermore, financially distressed customers might be forced to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we cannot provide any assurance that such customers and key counterparties will not become financially distressed or that such financially distressed customers or counterparties will not default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. if one of such customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts owed to us. similarly, our contracts with such customers may be renegotiated at lower rates or terminated altogether. significant customer and other counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy. we may experience difficulties completing acquisitions or integrating new businesses and properties, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets. we evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe will complement or expand our operations in accordance with our growth strategy. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete. any acquired business or assets will be subject to many of the same risks as our existing businesses and may not achieve the levels of performance that we anticipate. 23 if we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings. integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) the loss of key customers of the acquired business; (ii) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (iii) the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations; (iv) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting, internal controls and other systems; and (v) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees. we may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately. successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time. because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion. our business, operations or financial condition generally may be negatively impacted as a result of negative public opinion. public opinion may be influenced by negative portrayals of the industry in which we operate as well as opposition to development projects. in addition, market events specific to us could result in the deterioration of our reputation with key stakeholders. potential impacts of negative public opinion or reputational issues may include delays or stoppages in expansion projects, legal or regulatory actions or challenges, blockades, increased regulatory oversight, reduced support from regulatory authorities, challenges to regulatory approvals, difficulty securing financing for and cost overruns affecting expansion projects and the degradation of our business generally. reputational risk cannot be managed in isolation from other forms of risk. credit, market, operational, insurance, regulatory and legal risks, among others, must all be managed effectively to safeguard our reputation. our reputation and public opinion could also be impacted by the actions and activities of other companies operating in the energy industry, particularly other energy infrastructure providers, over which we have no control. in particular, our reputation could be impacted by negative publicity related to pipeline incidents or unpopular expansion projects and due to opposition to development of hydrocarbons and energy infrastructure, particularly projects involving resources that are considered to increase ghg emissions and contribute to climate change. negative impacts from a compromised reputation or changes in public opinion (including with respect to the production, transportation and use of hydrocarbons generally) could include revenue loss, reduction in customer base, delays in obtaining, or challenges to, regulatory approvals with respect to growth projects and decreased value of our securities and our business. the future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. the rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our co 2 business segment will decline. we may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future. additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. the development of crude oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. the business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative. it is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well. furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment. a variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable. a productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. in addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. 24 our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. we engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and ngl, including differentials between regional markets. these hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received. in addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for crude oil, natural gas and ngl. the markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets. as our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements. to the extent then-existing underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions. the accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements. in addition, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely eliminate our exposure to commodity prices; therefore, our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. for more information about our hedging activities, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates hedging activities and note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. a breach of information security or failure of one or more key information technology or operational (it) systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business, results of operations or business reputation. our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. some of the operational systems we use are owned or operated by independent third-party vendors. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to, controlling our pipelines and terminals with industrial control systems, collecting and storing information and data, processing transactions, and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. while we have implemented and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect our it and data systems from such attacks, we can provide no assurance that our cybersecurity program will be effective. the risk of a disruption or breach of our operational systems, or the compromise of the data processed in connection with our operations, through an act of terrorism or cyber sabotage event has increased as attempted attacks have advanced in sophistication and number around the world. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems, which may result from problems such as malware, computer viruses, hacking attempts or third-party error or malfeasance, could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues. efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures, including malware and anti-virus software and controls, may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event. in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. attacks, including acts of terrorism or cyber sabotage, or the threat of such attacks, may adversely affect our business or reputation. the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or cyber sabotage events. for example, in 2018, a cyberattack on a shared data network forced four u.s. natural gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers. potential targets include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems. the occurrence of an attack could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, 25 damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations. there is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future. these developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or could harm our business reputation. hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters, as well as subsidence and coastal erosion and climate-related physical risks, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters or could be impacted by subsidence and coastal erosion. these natural disasters and phenomena could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport. in the third quarter of 2017, hurricane harvey caused disruptions in our operations and damage to our assets near the texas gulf coast requiring approximately $45 million in repair costs, approximately $10 million of which was not recoverable through insurance. for more information regarding the impact of hurricane harvey on our assets and operating results, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of weather, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding. these climate-related changes could damage physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. in addition, we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. natural disasters and phenomena can similarly affect the facilities of our customers. in either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. see items 1 and 2 business and properties narrative description of business environmental matters . substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located is owned by third parties. if we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected. we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners' land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others. while our interstate natural gas pipelines in the u.s. have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline petroleum liquids, natural gas, co 2 , or crude oil and the laws of the particular state. in any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. if we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected. in addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases. if we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and a substantial increase in our costs. our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans. our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. we and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. in addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. if we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. in addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals. if we are unable to retain our executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly richard d. kinder, our executive chairman and one of our founders, steve kean, our chief executive officer, and kim dang, our president. along with the other members of our senior management, mssrs. kinder and kean and ms. dang have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy. if we are not successful in retaining mr. kinder, mr. kean, ms. 26 dang or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we do not maintain key personnel insurance. our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums. our insurance program may not cover all operational risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets subsequent to certain hurricanes and natural disasters have made it more difficult and more expensive to obtain certain types of coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or failure by one or more of our insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover our assets. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. there is no assurance that our insurers will renew their insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $33.4 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments). additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries. this level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. we may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated ebitda, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements. we may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. for more information about our debt, see note 9 debt to our consolidated financial statements. our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee agreement) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn reduce our cash flows and limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities. our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions. although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will 27 generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities. also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. further, to the extent that financial markets characterize investments that might be impacted by public perception of, or federal or state regulation related to, climate change and ghg emissions as a financial risk, our cost of and ability to access capital may be adversely affected. a significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our and our customers' access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions' policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. our and our customers' access to capital could be affected by financial institutions' evolving policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. public opinion toward industries linked to fossil fuels continues to evolve. concerns about the potential effects of climate change have caused some to direct their attention towards sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in such companies. ultimately, this could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities or for us to secure funding for growth projects, and consequently could both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects. our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately $8.9 billion of our approximately $33.4 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps. should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service variable-rate debt would increase, as would our costs to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility may bear interest rates in relation to libor, depending on our selection of repayment options, and certain of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements have a floating interest rate in relation to one-month libor or three-month libor. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority in the u.k. announced a desire to phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. financial industry working groups are developing replacement rates and methodologies to transition existing agreements that depend on libor as a reference rate; however, we can provide no assurance that market-accepted rates and transition methodologies will be available and finalized at the time of libor cessation. if clear market standards and transition methodologies have not developed by the time libor becomes unavailable, we may have difficulty reaching agreement on acceptable replacement rates under our revolving credit facility and our interest rate swap agreements. if we are unable to negotiate replacement rates on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. for more information about our interest rate risk, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. acquisitions and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital. limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. we have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. if our internally generated cash flows are not sufficient to fund one or more capital projects or acquisitions, we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. the instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that may be beneficial to us. some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions. the instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more limiting restrictions. our 28 ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. risks related to ownership of our capital stock the guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates. circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. we disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock. these reflect our current judgment, but as with any estimate, they may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. see information regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of this report. if our board of directors elects to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels. as events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends. alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends. this would add to our substantial debt discussed above under risks related to financing our business our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions . our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-u.s. citizens within the meaning of the jones act. these restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-u.s. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. the jones act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by u.s. citizens, as defined under the jones act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade. as a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a u.s. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-u.s. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-u.s. citizens to 22%. these redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the u.s. further, those stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous. in addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-u.s. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders. risks related to regulation the ferc or the cpuc may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us. in addition, the ferc, the cpuc or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. the profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. to the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the ferc or the cpuc to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results. our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations. some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates. further, the ferc may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers. we may face challenges, similar to those described in note 18 litigation and environmental to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines. any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. 29 new laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. in addition, a certain degree of regulatory uncertainty is created by the current u.s. presidential administration because it remains unclear specifically what the current administration may do with respect to future policies and regulations that may affect us. regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the costs of raw materials, such as steel, which may be affected by tariffs or otherwise; (vii) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (viii) acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses; (ix) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (x) reporting and information posting requirements; (xi) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xii) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the energy businesses. should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts. furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources. new laws or regulations, unexpected policy changes or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties narrative description of business regulation . environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety. such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under cercla, the resource conservation and recovery act, the federal clean water act, the oil pollution act or analogous state laws as a result of the presence or release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances into or through the environment, and these laws may require response actions and remediation and may impose liability for natural resource and other damages. private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. failure to comply with these laws and regulations including required permits and other approvals also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could harm our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures. the resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. we own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities. while we believe we have utilized operating, handling and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors' wastes have been taken for disposal. in addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control. these properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the u.s. such as cercla, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators. imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. 30 further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. for example, the federal clean air act and other similar federal and state laws are subject to periodic review and amendment, which could result in more stringent emission control requirements obligating us to make significant capital expenditures at our facilities. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. for more information, see items 1 and 2 business and properties narrative description of business environmental matters. increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity at the federal and state level. there are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the u.s. department of transportation (dot) for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication. the ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict. the majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs. technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline's integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in high consequence areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs. we plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the dot rules. the results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. climate-related risk and related regulation could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of ghgs such as methane and co 2 , including the epa programs to control ghg emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs. existing epa regulations require us to report ghg emissions in the u.s. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated ngl, and production of naturally occurring co 2 (for example, from our mcelmo dome co 2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere. proposed approaches to further regulate ghg emissions include establishing ghg cap and trade programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content. for more information about climate change regulation, see items 1 and 2 business and properties narrative description of business environmental matters climate change. adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our ghg emissions, pay taxes related to our ghg emissions and administer and manage a ghg emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant. recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the ferc. such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to ghgs, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. finally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather. these climate-related changes could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 31 increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. we gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or ngl from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent. oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. the oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane. the extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells. there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing. adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or ngl and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. in addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. these laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. in addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. these laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. the dodd-frank act requires the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (cftc) and the sec to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the otc derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. those rules and regulations are largely complete; although in december 2016, the cftc re-proposed new rules pursuant to the dodd-frank act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for otc swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges. thus, we cannot predict how further rules and regulations will affect us. if we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the jones act includes restrictions on ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our u.s. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the jones act, or changes to or a repeal of the jones act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. we are subject to the jones act, which generally restricts u.s. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the u.s. flag, built in the u.s., owned and operated by u.s.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by u.s. citizens and crewed by predominately u.s. citizens. our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the jones act provisions on coastwise trade. if we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the u.s. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-u.s. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of u.s. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels. our business could be adversely affected if the jones act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same u.s. government imposed burdens. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 energy commodity market risk 59 interest rate risk 60 foreign currency risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. generally, our market risk sensitive instruments and positions have been determined to be other than trading. our exposure to market risk as discussed below includes forward-looking statements and represents an estimate of possible changes in fair value or future earnings that would occur assuming hypothetical future movements in energy commodity prices or interest rates. our views on market risk are not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur and do not represent the maximum possible gains and losses that may occur, since actual gains and losses will differ from those estimated based on actual fluctuations in energy commodity prices or interest rates and the timing of transactions. energy commodity market risk we are exposed to energy commodity market risk and other external risks in the ordinary course of business. however, we manage these risks by executing a hedging strategy that seeks to protect us financially against adverse price movements and serves to minimize potential losses. our strategy involves the use of certain energy commodity derivative contracts to reduce and minimize the risks associated with unfavorable changes in the market price of crude oil, natural gas and ngl. the derivative contracts that we use include exchange-traded and otc commodity financial instruments, including, but not limited to, futures and options contracts, fixed price swaps and basis swaps. we may categorize such use of energy commodity derivative contracts as cash flow hedges because the derivative contract is used to hedge the anticipated future cash flow of a transaction that is expected to occur but which value is uncertain. 59 our hedging strategy involves entering into a financial position intended to offset our physical position, or anticipated position, in order to minimize the risk of financial loss from an adverse price change. for example, as sellers of crude oil, natural gas and ngl, we often enter into fixed price swaps and/or futures contracts to guarantee or lock-in the sale price of our crude oil or the margin from the sale and purchase of our natural gas at the time of market delivery, thereby in whole or in part offsetting any change in prices, either positive or negative. using derivative contracts for this purpose helps provide increased certainty with regard to operating cash flows which helps us to undertake further capital improvement projects, attain budget results and meet dividend targets. our policies require that derivative contracts are only entered into with carefully selected major financial institutions or similar counterparties based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and we maintain strict dollar and term limits that correspond to our counterparties' credit ratings. while it is our policy to enter into derivative transactions principally with investment grade counterparties and actively monitor their credit ratings, it is nevertheless possible that losses will result from counterparty credit risk in the future. the credit ratings of the primary parties from whom we transact in energy commodity derivative contracts (based on contract market values) are as follows (credit ratings per standard &amp; poor's rating service): credit rating ing a+ citibank a+ wells fargo a+ macquarie a+ societe generale a we measure the risk of price changes in the derivative instrument portfolios utilizing a sensitivity analysis model. the sensitivity analysis applied to each portfolio measures the potential income or loss (i.e., the change in fair value of the derivative instrument portfolio) based upon a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying quoted market prices. in addition to these variables, the fair value of each portfolio is influenced by fluctuations in the notional amounts of the instruments and the discount rates used to determine the present values. because we enter into derivative contracts largely for the purpose of mitigating the risks that accompany certain of our business activities, both in the sensitivity analysis model and in reality, the change in the market value of the derivative contracts' portfolio is offset largely by changes in the value of the underlying physical transactions. a hypothetical 10% movement in the underlying commodity prices would have the following effect on the associated derivative contracts' estimated fair value (in millions): as of december 31, commodity derivative 2019 2018 crude oil $ 113 $ 97 natural gas 8 12 ngl 7 6 total $ 128 $ 115 our sensitivity analysis represents an estimate of the reasonably possible gains and losses that would be recognized on the crude oil, natural gas and ngl portfolios of derivative contracts assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. it does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated. actual gains and losses may differ from estimates due to actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures and the timing thereof, as well as changes in our portfolio of derivatives during the year. interest rate risk in order to maintain a cost effective capital structure, it is our policy to borrow funds using a mix of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt. the market risk inherent in our debt instruments and positions is the potential change arising from increases or decreases in interest rates as discussed below. 60 for fixed rate debt, changes in interest rates generally affect the fair value of the debt instrument, but not our earnings or cash flows. conversely, for variable rate debt, changes in interest rates generally do not impact the fair value of the debt instrument, but may affect our future earnings and cash flows. generally, there is not an obligation to prepay fixed rate debt prior to maturity and, as a result, changes in fair value should not have a significant impact on the fixed rate debt. we are generally subject to interest rate risk upon refinancing maturing debt. below are our debt balances, including debt fair value adjustments and the preferred interest in kmp held by kmgp that was redeemed on january 15, 2020, and sensitivity to interest rates (in millions): december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 carrying value estimated fair value(c) carrying value estimated fair value(c) fixed rate debt(a) $ 33,943 $ 37,588 $ 36,480 $ 36,647 variable rate debt $ 449 $ 428 $ 844 $ 822 notional principal amount of variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements (250 ) notional principal amount of fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements 8,725 10,575 debt balances subject to variable interest rates(b) $ 8,924 $ 11,419 _______ (a) a hypothetical 10% change in the average interest rates applicable to such debt as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , would result in changes of approximately $1,548 million and $1,638 million , respectively, in the fair values of these instruments. (b) a hypothetical 10% change in the weighted average interest rate on all of our borrowings (approximately 53 and 52 basis points, respectively, in 2019 and 2018 ) when applied to our outstanding balance of variable rate debt as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , including adjustments for the notional swap amounts described above, would result in changes of approximately $47 million and $59 million , respectively, in our 2019 and 2018 annual pre-tax earnings. (c) fair values were determined using level 2 inputs. fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements are entered into for the purpose of converting a portion of the underlying cash flows related to long-term fixed rate debt securities into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. since the fair value of fixed rate debt varies with changes in the market rate of interest, swap agreements are entered into to receive a fixed and pay a variable rate of interest. such swap agreements result in future cash flows that vary with the market rate of interest, and therefore hedge against changes in the fair value of the fixed rate debt due to market rate changes. we monitor the mix of fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations in light of changing market conditions and from time to time, may alter that mix by, for example, refinancing outstanding balances of variable rate debt with fixed rate debt (or vice versa) or by entering into interest rate swap agreements or other interest rate hedging agreements. as of december 31, 2019 , including debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps but excluding our debt fair value adjustments, approximately 27% of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates. for more information on our interest rate risk management and on our interest rate swap agreements, see note 14 risk management to our consolidated financial statements. libor phase out amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility may bear interest rates in relation to libor, depending on our selection of repayment options, and certain of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements have a floating interest rate in relation to one-month libor or three-month libor. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority in the u.k. announced a desire to phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee consisting of large u.s. financial institutions convened by the u.s. federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york, has recommended replacing libor with the secured overnight financing rate (sofr), a new index supported by short-term treasury repurchase agreements. although there have been some transactions utilizing sofr, it is unknown whether this alternative reference rate will attain market acceptance as a replacement for libor. the agreement governing our revolving credit facility includes provisions to determine a replacement rate for libor if necessary during its term, which require that we and our lenders agree upon a replacement rate based on the then-prevailing market convention for similar agreements. the international swaps and derivatives association is developing parameters for replacement rates that 61 would apply upon cessation of libor and has indicated plans to publish a protocol to enable market participants to include the replacement rates in existing swap agreements. we currently do not expect the transition from libor to have a material impact on us. however, if clear market standards and replacement methodologies have not developed as of the time libor becomes unavailable, we may have difficulty reaching agreement on acceptable replacement rates under our revolving credit facility and our interest rate swap agreements. if we are unable to negotiate replacement rates on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. foreign currency risk as of december 31, 2019, we had a notional principal amount of $1,358 million of cross-currency swap agreements that effectively convert all of our fixed-rate euro denominated debt, including annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to u.s. dollar denominated debt at fixed rates. these swaps eliminate the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency denominated debt.