risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42risk factors 11 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories at our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; availability of raw materials and equipment; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in the mix of products; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; announcements of significant acquisitions or any delays or unexpected developments with respect to previously announced acquisitions; 11 table of contents disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and recent economic uncertainty have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we reduced wafer starts in both fab 2 and fab 4, implemented rotating unpaid time off and had multiple planned shutdowns in our thailand facility to help control inventory levels in response to adverse economic conditions. this lower capacity utilization resulted in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. from the march 2010 quarter through the september 2011 quarter, we were running at more optimal levels of capacity utilization. however, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts to control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. we continued with the reduced level of wafer starts in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. these recent actions had a negative impact on our gross margins. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: 12 table of contents the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 58% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. 13 table of contents our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . in connection with our acquisition of sst in april 2010, we acquired sst's intellectual property licensing business which is based on its superflash technology. the success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our superflash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. we are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors. we use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. we also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. further, procurement of required products and services from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products 14 table of contents in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. in such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. certain of our superflash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. an interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against us or the customers or licensees by third parties. these legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages. 15 table of contents because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause the system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 74,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 8% of our total net sales in fiscal 2012, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. for example, under these contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for claims of intellectual property infringement. if we agree to special supply terms and we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. if we agree to special warranty or indemnification provisions, we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities and set caps on our liability exposure, such provisions do expose us to significant additional risks and could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. 16 table of contents business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2012, approximately 82% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. during fiscal 2011, approximately 80% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding; however, our facilities have continued to operate normally. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; public health conditions; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in collecting receivables; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar 17 table of contents transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, such as past declines in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such network disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or partner, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data by unauthorized parties; however, such attacks have not resulted in any material damage to us. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions and any such attack or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches and loss of our data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to, certain property, product defects, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past and could require us in the future to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. over the past several years, there has been an expansion in environmental laws focusing on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances in electronic products. the european union and countries such as the u.s., china, korea and brazil, have enacted or may enact such laws or regulations. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture and sell our products. in addition, over the last several years, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packaging materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of hazardous substances in our products and energy efficiency measures. 18 table of contents customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act requires the sec to establish new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. when these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products), and there will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. new climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. it is possible that new permits will be required for our current or any expansion of our operations. failure to receive timely permits could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us such as water and power shortages or higher costs for water or energy to control the temperature inside of our facilities. also, certain of our operations are located in tropical regions, such as thailand. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or local government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the i.r.s. and other tax authorities for fiscal 2009 and later. we are currently being audited by the i.r.s. for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2005 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. 19 table of contents the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies; actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; and global economic and financial conditions. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures, including our recently announced agreement to acquire smsc. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. in this regard, in may 2012, we announced the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire smsc, a publicly traded semiconductor company. the integration process for our acquisitions, including our acquisition of smsc, may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. while the risks above may be relevant to all of our acquisitions, our recently announced acquisition of smsc, when completed, will be a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and exposes us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past. further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. 20 table of contents we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill or long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2012. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in december 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. in august 2011, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement. although we have not yet borrowed under such credit agreement, we expect to borrow a significant amount under such agreement in connection with the closing of our acquisition of smsc later this year. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the obama administration and members of congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. if adopted, 21 table of contents certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. the value of our investments in marketable equity investments could change materially. our investments in available-for-sale marketable securities at march 31, 2012 consist of shares of public company common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of our balance sheet date. the market value of these investments was approximately $5.3 million at march 31, 2012. the stock prices of these securities could materially decrease due to company performance or market-related activity, negatively affecting the value of these investments. if we wanted to liquidate these investments at a time in which the stock prices had decreased from current levels, our realized return would be materially and adversely affected. depending on the number of shares we desire to sell relative to the daily trading volume in the shares, in the event we desire to sell our marketable securities, it may take several weeks or months to dispose of our position and our efforts to sell could drive down the price of the shares we are selling. we may not realize a return on our non-marketable equity investments. at march 31, 2012, we had investments of $7.7 million in several privately held companies, including those that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of sst. these companies range from early-stage companies to more mature companies with established revenue and business models. many factors are critical to the success of these companies, including product and technology development, market acceptance of their products and technology, and achievement of financial and operational efficiencies. if any of these private companies are unsuccessful as a result of these or other factors, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. also, if we determine that an other-than-temporary impairment to fair value exists in any of our non-marketable equity investments, we will need to write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related impairment charge. additionally, we may desire to dispose of one or more of these non-marketable equity investments from time to time. however, our investments in these private companies are not liquid and we may not be able to dispose of the investments to our advantage or even at all. also, for investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, the income or loss we are required to share from the investee's income or loss could affect our earnings. gains or losses from equity securities could vary from our expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges. credit conditions have adversely impacted our holdings of auction rate securities. at march 31, 2012, $10.2 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ars. historically, the carrying value of ars approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. with the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, our ars have experienced multiple failed auctions. as a result, we will not be able to access such funds until a future auction on these investments is successful. our ars have experienced multiple rating downgrades by the major rating agencies. the fair value of these ars has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. based on the estimated values, we concluded these investments were other than temporarily impaired and have recognized impairment charges on these investments in prior periods. in fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ars positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ars position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. we recognized impairment charges of $1.6 million in fiscal 2011. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. the majority of our short and long-term investments are in highly rated government agency bonds and corporate bonds. other than with respect to our holdings of ars, we have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with such investments. however, there can be no assurance that credit market conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our investments in government agency bonds or corporate bonds. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,787.6 million as of march 31, 2012 compared to $1,708.3 million as of march 31, 2011. the available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 270,017 $ 356,718 $ 484,985 $ 30,230 weighted-average yield rate 1.93 % 1.51 % 1.11 % 1.43 % 43 table of contents at march 31, 2012, $10.2 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ars. historically, the carrying value of ars approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. if an auction fails for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. with the continuing liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our ars have experienced multiple failed auctions. while we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ars no longer approximates the original purchase value. the fair value of the failed ars of $10.2 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. we evaluated the impairments in the value of these ars, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis resulted in the securities being other-than-temporarily impaired. in fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ars positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ars position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. we recognized impairment charges of $1.6 million on our ars in fiscal 2011. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. investments in marketable equity investments our available-for-sale marketable equity investments at march 31, 2012 consist of shares of public company common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of the balance sheet date. these investments are classified as marketable securities and accounted for under the provisions of asc 320 investments -- debt and equity securities . the market value of these investments was approximately $5.3 million at march 31, 2012 compared to our cost basis of approximately $5.9 million. the value of our investments in these securities would be materially impacted if there was a significant change in the market price of the shares. a hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in the stock prices compared to the stock prices at march 31, 2012 would have affected the value of our investments in marketable equity securities by approximately $1.6 million. see note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our investments in these marketable securities. investments in non-marketable equity investments we have non-marketable equity investments in several companies, including those that we acquired as a result of our acquisition of sst. these companies range from early-stage companies to more mature companies with established revenue and business models. these companies are dependent upon successful execution of their product and technology development objectives, acceptance of their products and technology in the markets they serve, and achievement of financial and operational efficiencies. if any of these private companies are unsuccessful in these and other related initiatives, or if there are factors beyond their control in the markets which they serve, their performance could be affected materially and adversely, resulting in a loss of some or all of their value, which would in turn require us to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment to fair value exists in such private equity or debt investments. if an other-than-temporary impairment of fair value exists, we will need to write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related impairment charge to our income statement. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding those accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $5.6 million as of march 31, 2012. as of march 31, 2012, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $2.1 million.risk factors 11 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of smsc; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in the mix of products; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; announcements of significant acquisitions; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative 11 table of contents effect on the price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts in both fab 2 and fab 4 to help control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. we continued with the reduced level of wafer starts through the first quarter of fiscal 2013. these actions had a negative impact on our gross profit. we further reduced the wafer starts in our fabs in late september 2012 and again during the quarter ended december 31, 2012 which continued to negatively impact our gross profit through the march 2013 quarter. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures, including our acquisition of smsc. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. in this regard, on august 2, 2012, we completed our acquisition of smsc, a publicly traded semiconductor company. the integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company (including smsc), or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. while the risks above may be relevant to all of our acquisitions, our acquisition of smsc was a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and exposes us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past. further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. 12 table of contents we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to achieve certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. 13 table of contents any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash technology. the success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our superflash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees 14 table of contents and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. we also use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries has increased as a result of our acquisition of smsc. although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, or on terms favorable to us. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies desired to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, use of these subcontractors creates increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to 15 table of contents infringement claims made against us, the customers or licensees by third parties. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. 16 table of contents we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, we may be subject to liability. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 82,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2013, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. smsc has a higher concentration of larger customers and we expect the overall percentage of revenue from our top ten customers to increase due to our acquisition of smsc. we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. further, as a result of our acquisition of smsc, we inherited certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we may not be able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we may be forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could 17 table of contents suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2013, approximately 83% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 27% in china. during fiscal 2012, approximately 82% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 24% in china. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; public health conditions; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, such as past declines in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. additionally, as there has been 18 table of contents increased legislation in the u.s., europe and elsewhere regarding the handling of personal data, including the data of employees and customers, such a failure may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and litigation. there is also risk that we may be found not to comply with laws or regulations regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, or disposal of personal data. fines and other sanctions may result. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches and loss of our data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products and energy efficiency measures. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than applicable legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are more frequently requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or 19 table of contents may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. as we implement these new requirements, if it is determined that we are using other than conflict-free minerals, customers may demand us to change the sourcing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products), even if the costs for acceptable minerals significantly increases and availability is limited. there will likely be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2009 and later. we are currently being audited by the irs for fiscal 2009 and 2010, and smsc is currently under irs audit for fiscal 2011 and 2012. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2005 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. 20 table of contents in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill or long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2013. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in december 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we had maintained in the past. in august 2011, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement. we borrowed approximately $620 million under such credit agreement to help fund our acquisition of smsc in august 2012. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. 21 table of contents potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the obama administration and members of congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. if adopted, certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. credit conditions have adversely impacted our holdings of auction rate securities (ars). at march 31, 2013, $33.8 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ars. with the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets since 2008, our ars have experienced multiple failed auctions and are not liquid. while we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ars no longer approximates the original purchase value. the fair value of the failed ars of $33.8 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. we evaluated the impairments in the value of these ars, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis, which resulted in some of the securities being other-than temporarily impaired and recognized impairment charges on these investments of $0.4 million in fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ars positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ars position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. the majority of our short and long-term investments are in highly rated government agency bonds and corporate bonds. other than with respect to our holdings of ars, we have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with such investments. however, there can be no assurance that credit market conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our non-ars investments. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, higher costs for water or energy to control the temperature inside of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as thailand and arizona. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,836.0 million as of march 31, 2013 compared to $1,787.6 million as of march 31, 2012. the available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 352,279 $ 290,359 $ 462,073 $ 36,958 $ 10,016 $ 144,328 weighted-average yield rate 1.48 % 1.37 % 0.57 % 0.81 % 0.45 % 0.86 % at march 31, 2013, $33.8 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ars. with the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, our ars have experienced multiple failed auctions and are not liquid. while we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ars no longer approximates the original purchase value. the fair value of the failed ars of $33.8 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. we evaluated the impairments in the value of these ars, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis, which resulted in some of the securities being other-than-temporarily impaired and recognized impairment charges on these investments of $0.4 million in fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ars positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ars position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. if the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings.risk factors 11 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in the mix of products; announcements of significant acquisitions; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. 11 table of contents we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts in both fab 2 and fab 4 to help control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. we continued with the reduced level of wafer starts through the first quarter of fiscal 2013. these actions had a negative impact on our gross profit. we further reduced the wafer starts in our fabs in late september 2012 and again during the quarter ended december 31, 2012 which continued to negatively impact our gross profit through the march 2013 quarter. we increased wafer starts modestly throughout fiscal 2014 but were still below what we consider normal capacity levels. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; 12 table of contents our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. we also use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisition of smsc in august 2012 and will increase further as a result of our acquisition of supertex in april 2014. although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, or on terms favorable to us. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, use of subcontractors increases opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. 13 table of contents our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash technology. the success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our superflash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent 14 table of contents periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. in this regard, in april 2014, we completed our acquisition of supertex; and in august 2012, we completed our acquisition of smsc. the integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we may be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to 15 table of contents infringement claims made against us, our customers or our licensees by third parties. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. 16 table of contents we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, certain terms of such contracts expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 84,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2014, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. further, as a result of our acquisitions of smsc and supertex, we inherited certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we may not be able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 17 table of contents additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2014, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 29% in china. during fiscal 2013, approximately 83% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 27% in china. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which is currently experiencing political instability, and has experienced periods of political instability in the past. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; public health conditions; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, such as past declines in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. 18 table of contents interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. additionally, failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products and energy efficiency measures. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. 19 table of contents customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries in products, necessary to the functionality or production of products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. we must file a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters by june 2, 2014 and on an annual basis thereafter. other countries are considering similar regulations. as we implement these new requirements, if it is determined that we are using other than conflict-free minerals, customers may demand us to change the sourcing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products), even if the costs for compliant minerals significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials and/or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. there will likely be additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2011 and later. microchip and smsc are currently under irs audit for fiscal 2011 and 2012. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2006 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. 20 table of contents the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill or material long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2013 or fiscal 2014. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. in june 2013, we entered into a $2.0 billion credit agreement. at march 31, 2014, we had $650.0 million in outstanding borrowings under such credit agreement. in december 2007, we sold $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our loans under our credit agreement, our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 21 table of contents our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the obama administration and members of congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. if adopted, certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as thailand and arizona. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $2,143.5 million as of march 31, 2014 compared to $1,836.0 million as of march 31, 2013. the available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 211,363 $ 364,464 $ 883,305 $ 51,350 $ 9,995 $ 150,227 weighted-average yield rate 1.41 % 0.78 % 0.95 % 1.01 % 1.00 % 1.22 % see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our investments and use of forward contracts.risk factors 11 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; 11 table of contents the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts in both fab 2 and fab 4 to help control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. we continued with the reduced level of wafer starts through the first quarter of fiscal 2013. these actions had a negative impact on our gross profit. we further reduced the wafer starts in our fabs in late september 2012 and again during the quarter ended december 31, 2012 which continued to negatively impact our gross profit through the march 2013 quarter. we increased wafer starts modestly throughout fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015. although we operated at normal capacity levels during the last three quarters of fiscal 2015, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. 12 table of contents intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during fiscal 2015, approximately 39% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. we also use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of smsc in august 2012, supertex in april 2014 and issc in july 2014. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. 13 table of contents certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions and our acquisition activity can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2015 and approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2014. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 14 table of contents our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. in this regard, in july 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest of issc; in april 2014, we completed our acquisition of supertex; and in august 2012, we completed our acquisition of smsc. in may 2015, we announced an agreement to acquire micrel, incorporated. the integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we may be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. 15 table of contents in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against us, our customers or our licensees by third parties. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. 16 table of contents failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2015, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 28% in china. during fiscal 2014, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 29% in china. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition or economic weakness in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. 17 table of contents we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, certain terms of such contracts expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 91,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2015, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. further, as a result of our acquisitions, we may inherit certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 18 table of contents additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, such as recent declines in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. over the past several months, the u.s. dollar has appreciated significantly against the euro and other major currencies. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by such strength in the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that a strong dollar will have on our business or results of operations. interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. 19 table of contents we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products and energy efficiency measures. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the obama administration and members of congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. if adopted, certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on june 2, 2014 and are required to file annually thereafter. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials and/or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." we have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying 20 table of contents with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2011 and later. we are currently under irs audit for fiscal 2011 and 2012. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2007 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill or material long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2014. 21 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. in february 2015, we amended our credit agreement to increase the revolving credit facility to $2.555 billion and remove the term loan. at march 31, 2015, we had $462.0 million in outstanding borrowings under such credit agreement. also, in february 2015, we sold $1.725 billion of principal value of our 1.625% senior subordinated convertible debentures. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our loans under our credit agreement, our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona and thailand. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $2,342.2 million as of march 31, 2015 compared to $2,143.5 million as of march 31, 2014. the available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 225,009 $ 643,508 $ 651,795 $ 40,687 $ 62,013 $ 92,012 weighted-average yield rate 0.91 % 1.03 % 1.24 % 1.55 % 1.20 % 1.52 % we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-to-floating interest rate derivative instruments. based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of march 31, 2015, a hypothetical increase in benchmark interest rates of up to 1%, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of these instruments by $43 million. a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1%, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of these instruments by $39 million. any gains and losses on the fair value of these derivative instruments would generally be offset by gains and losses on the hedged item. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our investments and use of derivative instruments.risk factors 12 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our recent acquisition of atmel; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our 12 table of contents operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. for example, in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 we reduced wafer starts in both fab 2 and fab 4, which negatively impacted our gross profit through the march 2013 quarter. we increased wafer starts modestly throughout fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015. although we operated at normal capacity levels during the last three quarters of fiscal 2015, the first two quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our recently completed acquisition of atmel. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. on april 4, 2016, we acquired atmel which is our largest and most complex acquisition ever. in addition, in august 2015, we completed our acquisition of micrel; in july 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest in issc technologies corp. (issc); in april 2014, we completed our acquisition of supertex, inc. (supertex); and in august 2012, we completed our acquisition of standard microsystems corporation (smsc). the integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we may be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. in particular, as a result of our atmel acquisition, we became involved with certain third-party claims related to the atmel business. see "item 3. legal proceedings" for information regarding such claims. acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. in february 2015, we amended our credit agreement to increase the revolving credit facility to $2.555 billion and we sold $1.725 billion of principal value of our 1.625% senior subordinated convertible debentures. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. in august 2015, we increased our borrowings under our credit agreement to finance the approximately $430 million cash portion of the purchase price of our micrel acquisition which closed on august 3, 2015. in december 2015, we exercised our increase option in our credit agreement to obtain additional revolving commitments of $219 million, bringing our total revolving credit facility to $2.774 billion. at march 31, 2016, we had $1,052.0 million in outstanding borrowings under such credit agreement. in connection with the closing of our acquisition of atmel on april 4, 2016, we increased our borrowings under our credit agreement by approximately $0.94 billion to finance a portion of the purchase price of such acquisition. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our loans under our credit agreement, our 13 table of contents debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. 14 table of contents we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during each of fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, approximately 39% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. we also use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of smsc in august 2012, supertex in april 2014 and issc in july 2014. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions and our acquisition activity can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2016 and approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2015. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. 15 table of contents our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the 16 table of contents relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, product failures, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-effective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries, economic damage or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders or unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages or penalties. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in 17 table of contents uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2016, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 30% in china. during fiscal 2015, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 28% in china. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition or economic weakness in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. in particular, economic conditions in china remain uncertain and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. we deliver products to our european customers through our facilities in england. the uk's eu referendum on june 23, 2016 (called "brexit" in the press) is to determine whether the uk will leave the eu. if the uk does leave the eu, we may lose our ability to import and export products tax-free throughout europe. as a result, it may increase the costs to microchip for the import and sale of our products to our customers, which may result in a decrease in sales to certain of our customers. in order to avoid these costs, we may have to consider alternate methods for delivering product into europe. in implementing these changes, we may experience a disruption in operations or product shipments. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. 18 table of contents we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, certain terms of such contracts expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 93,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2016, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. further, as a result of our acquisitions, we may inherit certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement, product failure, or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 19 table of contents additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. over the past several months, the u.s. dollar has declined slightly against the euro and other major currencies. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by such change in the value of the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that the strength of the dollar will have on our business or results of operations. interruptions in our information technology systems, or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, any failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. 20 table of contents we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in the quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the obama administration and members of congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. if adopted, certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the u.s. changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on june 1, 2015. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." we have incurred, and 21 table of contents expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different manner than advocated by the conflict free smelter initiative or the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2011 and later. we are currently under irs audit for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2008 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; any acquisitions we pursue or complete (including our recent acquisition of atmel); and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. as a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. the amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. as of march 31, 2016, we had goodwill of $1,012.7 million and net intangible assets of $606.3 million. we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill 22 table of contents and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill or material long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2016 or fiscal 2015. however, if in future periods, we determine that our long-lived assets, including goodwill or intangible assets, are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. in may 2014, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued accounting standards update (asu) 2014-09 - revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606) , which will supersede nearly all existing revenue guidance under us gaap. the standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. we are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of the standard may have on our consolidated financial statements and have not elected a transition method. refer to note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its potential impact on us. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 23 table of contents further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona and thailand. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $2,564.6 million as of march 31, 2016 compared to $2,342.2 million as of march 31, 2015. the available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. we sold a significant portion of our available-for-sale investments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to finance a portion of the purchase price of our atmel acquisition which closed on april 4, 2016. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of march 31, 2016. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 41,078 $ 14,994 $ 413,558 $ $ $ weighted-average yield rate 0.98 % 0.75 % 1.21 % % % % see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our investments.risk factors 12 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our acquisition of atmel; our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. our acquisition of atmel, uncertain global economic conditions, the ongoing economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment 12 table of contents deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. although we operated at normal capacity levels during the last three quarters of fiscal 2015, the first two quarters of fiscal 2016, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, and throughout fiscal 2017, there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our acquisition of atmel. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. on april 4, 2016, we acquired atmel, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever. in addition, in august 2015, we completed our acquisition of micrel; in july 2014, we completed our acquisition of a controlling interest in issc; in april 2014, we completed our acquisition of supertex, inc.; and in august 2012, we completed our acquisition of smsc. the integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. in particular, as a result of our atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the atmel business. see "item 1. legal proceedings" for information regarding pending litigation. acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. to fund our acquisition of atmel, we used a significant portion of our cash balances, borrowed under our credit agreement and issued approximately 10.1 million shares of our common stock. additionally, we may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, including the divestiture of our atmel mobile touch assets or the planned divestiture of our micrel wafer fabrication facility, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as of march 31, 2017, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $4,513.8 million. in february 2017, we issued $2,645.0 million of aggregate principal value of senior and junior convertible debt and amended our existing $2,774.0 million credit agreement to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios. the february 2017 credit agreement amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property. we used a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2017 senior and junior convertible debt to settle $431.3 million in principal value of our 2007 junior convertible debt and $1,682.5 million to pay off the outstanding balance under the credit facility. at march 31, 2017 , there were no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility which is comprised of two tranches expiring in february 2020 and june 2018, the maturity date of the original credit agreement. in february 2015, we issued $1,725.0 million of principal value of our 2015 senior convertible debt. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance 13 table of contents of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. servicing our debt may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments. our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding debentures, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors. our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions. if we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. 14 table of contents historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, approximately 41% and 39% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries, respectively. we also use several contractors located primarily in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. specifically, during fiscal 2017, approximately 64% of our assembly requirements and 40% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 47% of our assembly requirements and 19% of our test requirements during fiscal 2016. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of atmel, micrel, smsc, supertex and issc. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions, and our acquisition activity (including our acquisitions of atmel and micrel) can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. 15 table of contents our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 and approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2016. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support original equipment manufacturer (oem) production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. 16 table of contents because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. in particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, product failures, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-effective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries, economic damage or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders or unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages or penalties. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. 17 table of contents further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2017, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 32% in china, including hong kong. during fiscal 2016, approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 30% in china, including hong kong. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition or economic weakness in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. in particular, economic conditions in china remain uncertain and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. a large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; 18 table of contents employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, certain terms of such contracts expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 115,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 12% of our total revenue for fiscal 2017 and six of our top ten customers are contract manufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. further, as a result of our acquisitions, we have inherited certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement, product failure, or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, cyber attacks, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. 19 table of contents in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that the strength of the dollar will have on our business or results of operations. interruptions in our information technology systems, or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, any failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors, have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. 20 table of contents the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in the quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on may 26, 2016. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." we have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different 21 table of contents manner than advocated by the conflict free smelter initiative or the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. a significant portion of our sales are made outside of the u.s. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2005 and later. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2007 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. we could be subject to changes in tax rates and potential u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings that could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the u.s. present u.s. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-u.s. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. however, changes to the u.s. income tax regulations and jurisdictions in which we operate, or in the interpretation of such laws, could, significantly increase our tax provisions and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. other factors or events, including business combinations, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns or as a result of deficiencies asserted by taxing authorities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in available tax credits, and changes in tax rates could also increase our future effective tax rate. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. 22 table of contents in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. anti-takeover defenses in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage takeover attempts, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of microchip. these provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the holders of 50% or more of the combined voting power of all classes of our capital stock, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. the application of section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock. as a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets. when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. the amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. as of march 31, 2017, we had goodwill of $2,299.0 million and net intangible assets of $2,148.1 million . we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2017 or fiscal 2016. in fiscal 2017, we recognized $11.9 million of intangible asset impairment charges. if in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. 23 table of contents our foreign pension plans are unfunded, and any requirement to fund these plans in the future could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. in connection with our acquisition of atmel, we assumed unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our french and german employees. plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. the projected benefit obligation totaled $50.4 million at march 31, 2017. the plans are unfunded in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. we expect to pay approximately $0.7 million in fiscal 2018 for benefits earned. should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. from time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations. if we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. from time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from european governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. the subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the financial accounting standards board (fasb) and the securities and exchange commission (sec). new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. in may 2014, the fasb issued accounting standards update (asu) 2014-09 - revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606) , which will supersede nearly all existing revenue guidance under us gaap. the standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. upon adoption of asu 2014-09, we will no longer defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. we are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of the standard may have on our consolidated financial statements. we currently expect to adopt the standard under the full retrospective method. the final adoption method will depend on the results of our final assessment, which is expected to be completed later in fiscal 2018. refer to note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its potential impact on us. 24 table of contents climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona and thailand. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,410.2 million as of march 31, 2017 compared to $2,564.6 million as of march 31, 2016 . we sold a significant portion of our available-for-sale investments during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to partially finance the purchase price of our atmel acquisition which closed on april 4, 2016. our available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of march 31, 2017 . we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 342,500 $ 10,024 $ 147,435 $ $ $ weighted-average yield rate 1.05 % 1.72 % 1.73 % % % % see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our investments.risk factors 12 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the "act"); new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our acquisition of microsemi; our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting china; announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, fires, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation or claims involving intellectual property, our microsemi acquisition, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. uncertain global economic conditions, the ongoing economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our acquisition of microsemi. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. on may 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever. in addition, in april 2016, we completed our acquisition of atmel; and in august 2015, we 12 table of contents completed our acquisition of micrel. the integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. in particular, in connection with our microsemi and atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to such businesses and transactions. see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation. acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. to fund our acquisition of microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt. we may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as of march 31, 2019 , the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $11.66 billion . in connection with our acquisition of microsemi, which closed on may 29, 2018, we incurred debt consisting of $3.10 billion under our revolving line of credit, $3.00 billion under our new term loan facility, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes. at march 31, 2019 , we had $3.27 billion in outstanding borrowings under our revolving line of credit which provides $3.60 billion of revolving loan commitments that terminate in 2023. at march 31, 2019 , we had $1.91 billion of outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility. in february 2017, we issued $2.65 billion of aggregate principal value of senior and junior convertible debt. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 13 table of contents servicing our current debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments. our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding convertible debt and debt incurred to finance our acquisition of microsemi, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors. our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions. if we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. 14 table of contents historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time. the overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , approximately 57% and 42% , respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. we also use several contractors located primarily in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. specifically, during fiscal 2019 , approximately 62% of our assembly requirements and 51% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 58% of our assembly requirements and 36% of our test requirements during fiscal 2018 . our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of microsemi, atmel, micrel, smsc, supertex and issc. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. in fiscal 2019 , we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $19.0 million . we operated at normal capacity levels during fiscal 2018 . 15 table of contents our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions, and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of microsemi) have had and can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers. sales to distributors accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2019 and approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 . we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in demand for our products from our distributors, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: effective new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 16 table of contents we may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs due to increased tariffs or other factors. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. also, the application of trade restrictions or tariffs by the u.s. or other countries may adversely impact the industry supply chain. for example, the u.s. government has recently increased tariffs on products that have china as their country of origin and which are imported into the u.s. likewise, the china government has increased tariffs on products that have the u.s. as their country of origin and which are imported into china. we have taken steps to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019. the recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending june 30, 2019 or future periods. we may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations. this could also impair sourcing flexibility. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. in particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues. the materials, components and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions, or application of trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. if our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease. such interruptions of our customers' businesses could harm our business. interruptions in our it systems, unauthorized access to our it systems or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex it systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, any failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems. for example, we have learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers. we have engaged experienced legal counsel and a leading forensic investigatory firm with experience in such matters. we have taken steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, as of the date of this filing, we are implementing a containment plan. we are continuing to evaluate the effectiveness of the containment plan and the amount and content of the information that was compromised and to implement additional remedial actions. at this time, we do not believe that this it system compromise has had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us. however, we are still evaluating the amount and type of data that was compromised and there can be no assurance as to what the impact of this it system compromise will be. as a result of the it system compromise, our management, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, has concluded that our internal controls related to it system access were not effective as of march 31, 2019 resulting in a material weakness in our internal controls. for additional information, refer to item 9a "controls and procedures." were any future attacks to be successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which include, but are not limited to, the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, event correlation tools, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. as a result of the 17 table of contents material weakness in our internal controls resulting from the it systems compromise, we have taken remediation actions and implemented additional controls. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. if we fail to remediate our recently identified material weaknesses and achieve and maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate current or future deficiencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. as discussed in item 9a controls and procedures in this report on form 10-k, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to it system access. internal controls related to such matters are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial reports. we are in the process of remediating the material weaknesses, but our efforts may not be successful. if we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in an appropriate and timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets. ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with united states generally accepted accounting principles. we are required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. in addition to the recently identified material weaknesses related to accounting for income taxes and to it system access, we have from time to time identified significant deficiencies related to other matters. if we fail to remediate our material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the financial accounting standards board (fasb) and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents, or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, cyber attacks, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; 18 table of contents however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, product failures, our microsemi acquisition, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-effective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. 19 table of contents it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries, economic damage or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders or unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages or penalties. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks including risks from recent increases in tariffs. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2019 , approximately 80% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 22% in china and 13% in taiwan. during fiscal 2018 , approximately 85% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 30% in china and 11% in taiwan. in fiscal 2019 , our acquisition of microsemi and our transition to sell-in revenue recognition contributed to the changes in net sales by country. 20 table of contents a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition or economic weakness in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. in particular, the trade relationship between the u.s. and china has worsened, economic conditions in china remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. the u.s. government has increased tariffs on products that have china as their country of origin and which are imported into the u.s. likewise, the china government has increased tariffs on products that have the u.s. as their country of origin and which are imported into china. we have taken steps to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019. the recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending june 30, 2019 or future periods. additionally, tariffs on our customers' products could impact their sales of such end products, resulting in lower demand for our products. we may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our customers. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. a large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. as part of our atmel acquisition, we acquired a test facility in calamba, philippines. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; potentially adverse tax consequences; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions; and difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer, we could face an increase in the cost of components, production delays, general business interruptions, delays from difficulties in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. our contractual relationships with our customers expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our non-distributor customers, and therefore we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had over 121,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 11% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019 and six of our top ten direct customers are contract manufacturers that 21 table of contents perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement, product failure, or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. further, where we do not have negotiated contracts with our customers, the terms of our customer's orders may govern the transaction and contain terms that are not favorable to us. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. reliance on government contracts and sales to governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant portion of the sales of microsemi (which we acquired in may 2018) are from or are derived from government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to u.s. government agencies. such sales are subject to uncertainties regarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities and policy changes. future sales to u.s. government agencies or customers are also subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the constraints of the budgetary process, changes in the timing and potential spending priorities and the impact of any past or future government shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, or future sequestrations. such sales are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary, regulatory, tax and trade policies implemented by current or future administrations or by the u.s. congress. in the past, microsemi has experienced delays and reductions in appropriations on programs that included its products. for example, there were federal government shutdowns from january 20, 2018 to january 23, 2018 and from december 22, 2018 through january 25, 2019. further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the u.s. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if the u.s. government fails to complete its annual budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which time we may experience further delays and reductions in appropriations or reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. while we generally function as a subcontractor in these type of transactions, further changes in u.s. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs, may adversely impact the contracting environment and our operating results. the u.s. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with microsemi or us at any time. for example, in 2014, microsemi had a $75 million contract terminated for convenience by the u.s. government. uncertainty with respect to government spending and termination of contracts associated with government related projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue and other benefits we achieve from our microsemi acquisition. our business related to u.s. governmental agencies or customers requires us to comply with applicable governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers. maintaining compliance with these regulations, including any audit requirements, requires that we devote significant resources to such matters in terms of training, personnel, information technology and facilities. any failure to maintain compliance with these requirements may result in fines and penalties and loss of current or future business that may materially and adversely affect our operating results. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the 22 table of contents services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro, thai baht, taiwan dollar and malaysian ringgit, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that any weakness or strength in the u.s. dollar will have on our business or results of operations. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, cybersecurity matters, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future, to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations' logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in the quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and 23 table of contents if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on may 23, 2018. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." we have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different manner than advocated by the responsible minerals initiative or the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into or from which we ship our products could levy fines, restrict or delay our ability to export or transfer products, or increase costs associated with the manufacture or transfer of products. a significant portion of our sales are made through the exporting and importing of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations, international traffic in arms regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to transfer product to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for certain of our products associated with our microsemi acquisition, we rely on u.s. export licenses to ship our products to non-u.s. customers. in 2018, there was a federal government shutdown from january 20, 2018 to january 23, 2018 and a second shutdown from december 22, 2018 through january 25, 2019. due to the u.s. federal government shutdown, the agency that approves these export licenses was temporarily closed. this resulted in a delay in certain shipments that were scheduled to ship within the quarter. although this delay did not result in a material adverse impact on our revenue in previous quarters, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenue within the quarter of any future government shutdown, and in the following quarter depending on the ability of the governmental agency to expedite processing of licenses delayed during the shutdown. the u.s. and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. trade tensions between the u.s. and china escalated in 2018 and 2019, including the u.s. increasing tariffs on chinese origin goods, and china increasing tariffs on u.s. goods. some of our products were affected and are continuing to be affected by the increased tariffs. higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs have been recently announced or threatened by the u.s. and chinese administrations. we have taken steps to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2019. the recent additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending june 30, 2019 or future periods. increased tariffs on our customers' products could impact their sales of their products, and increased tariffs on our products in comparison to those of our competitors, could each result in lower demand for our products. further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, restrictions on exports or other trade barriers, may limit our ability to produce products, 24 table of contents increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. the outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2007 and later. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2007 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these or any future examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations (including the act), changes in the interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the u.s. the adoption of the act significantly changed the taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creating new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. the new legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the act, along with the state tax impact of these changes and potential future cash distributions, will likely have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of microsemi; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; any other acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. 25 table of contents anti-takeover defenses in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage takeover attempts, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of microchip. these provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the holders of 50% or more of the combined voting power of all classes of our capital stock, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. the application of section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock. as a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets. when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. the amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. as of march 31, 2019 , we had goodwill of $6.66 billion and net intangible assets of $6.69 billion . in connection with the completion of our acquisition of microsemi in may 2018, our balance of goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly. we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2019 or fiscal 2018 . in fiscal 2019 , we recognized $3.1 million of intangible asset impairment charges. no material intangible asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2018 . if in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. our foreign pension plans are unfunded, and any requirement to fund these plans in the future could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. in connection with our acquisitions of microsemi and atmel, we assumed defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our french and german employees. plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. the projected benefit obligation totaled $72.7 million at march 31, 2019 . most of these plans are unfunded in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate 26 table of contents intention of funding these plans. benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. we expect to pay approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2020 for benefits earned. should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. from time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations. if we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. from time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from european governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. the subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona, thailand, and the philippines. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as of march 31, 2019, our long-term debt totaled $11.66 billion . we have no interest rate exposure to rate changes on our fixed rate debt, which totaled $6.48 billion as of march 31, 2019. we do have interest rate exposure with respect to the $5.18 billion balance of our variable interest rate debt outstanding as of march 31, 2019. a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would impact our expected annual interest expense for the next 12 months by approximately $26.0 million. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry, public health or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally, including ongoing uncertainty surrounding the covid-19 virus and its implications; disruptions in our business, our supply chain or our customers' businesses due to public health concerns (including viral outbreaks such as the covid-19 virus), cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, fires, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; the level of order cancellations or push-outs due to the impact of the covid-19 virus or other factors; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting business in china, as well as those focused on specific companies; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our past or future acquisitions; our ability to adjust our factory capacity to respond to changes in customer demand; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the act); new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials, supplies and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation, investigation or claims involving intellectual property, our microsemi acquisition, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. uncertain global economic and public health conditions, such as the covid-19 virus, have caused or may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. 12 table of contents we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions, as a result of the covid-19 virus or otherwise, may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the recent past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: global economic and financial uncertainty due to the covid-19 virus or other factors; quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our completed or future acquisitions; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has recently and from time to time in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our acquisition of microsemi. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. in may 2018, we completed our acquisition of microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever, and, in april 2016, we completed our acquisition of atmel. the integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. in particular, in connection with our microsemi and atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions. see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters. acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. to fund our acquisition of microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt. we may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures, on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture or other exit strategy, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to former employees, customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the former employees, assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as of march 31, 2020 , the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $10.59 billion . in connection with our acquisition of microsemi, we incurred debt consisting of $3.10 billion under our revolving line of credit, $3.00 billion under our term loan facility, and $2.00 billion in senior secured notes. at march 31, 2020 , we had $2.39 billion in outstanding borrowings under our revolving line of credit which provides up to $3.57 billion of revolving loan commitments that terminate in 2023. at march 31, 2020 , we had $1.72 billion of outstanding borrowings under our term loan facility. in march 2020, we financed the settlement of $615.0 million in principal amount of our 2015 senior convertible debt through borrowings under our bridge loan facility. at march 31, 2020 , we had $3.87 billion of outstanding principal related to our convertible debt consisting of $2.77 billion of aggregate principal value issued in 2017 and $1.11 billion of principal value issued in 2015. as a result of such transactions, we have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt, senior debt, term loan debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. servicing our current debt requires a significant amount of cash, we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments and any adverse changes in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets. our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding convertible debt and senior notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors including uncertainties related to the covid-19 virus. our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions. if we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. our senior secured notes are rated by certain major credit rating agencies. these credit ratings impact our cost of borrowing and our ability to access the capital markets and are based on our financial performance and certain financial metrics including debt levels. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrade of our credit rating by any of the major credit rating agencies could result in increased borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets to refinance our existing debt or finance future debt. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, especially in times of economic volatility such as those caused by the covid-19 virus where customers may increase or decrease order levels within the quarter, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. 14 table of contents we may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs due to the impact of the covid-19 virus, increased tariffs or other factors. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. also, the impact of the covid-19 virus or the application of trade restrictions or tariffs by the u.s. or other countries may adversely impact the industry supply chain. for example, in 2019, the u.s. government increased tariffs on products that have china as their country of origin and which are imported into the u.s. likewise, the china government increased tariffs on products that have the u.s. as their country of origin and which are imported into china. we have taken steps to attempt to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. the additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china will increase our costs and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results in the three months ending june 30, 2020 or future periods. we may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations. this could also impair sourcing flexibility. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. in particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues. the materials, components and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions, the impact of the covid-19 virus or application of trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. if our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease. such interruptions of our customers' businesses could harm our business. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the relative impact of the covid-19 virus on us relative to our competitors; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and 15 table of contents general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the average selling prices of our microcontroller, fpga, and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time. the overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, approximately 61% and 57%, respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. we also use several contractors located primarily in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. specifically, during fiscal 2020, approximately 55% of our assembly requirements and 46% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 62% of our assembly requirements and 51% of our test requirements during fiscal 2019. our reliance on third party contractors and foundries has increased as a result of our acquisitions including our acquisitions of microsemi and atmel. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels due to disruptions from the covid-19 virus, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 , we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in unabsorbed capacity charges of $47.2 million and $16.2 million , respectively. 16 table of contents our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions (including the impact of the covid-19 virus or trade tensions) and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of microsemi) have had and can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers. sales to distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in fiscal 2020 and approximately 51% of our net sales in fiscal 2019. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies (including the impact of the covid-19 virus) or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in demand for our products from our distributors, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: effective new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 17 table of contents we continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems and any interruptions in our it systems, unauthorized access to our it systems or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex it systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our business or competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, any failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, network compromises, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems. for example, in fiscal 2019, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers. we engaged experienced legal counsel and a leading forensic investigatory firm with experience in such matters. we took various steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, in may 2019, we began implementing a containment plan. we routinely evaluate the effectiveness of the containment mechanisms that were implemented and continue to implement additional measures from time to time. we have analyzed and continue to analyze the amount and content of the information that was compromised. we do not believe that this it system compromise has had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us. as a result of the it system compromise, our management, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, concluded that our internal controls related to it system access were not effective resulting in a material weakness in our internal controls for fiscal 2019. although this material weakness in our internal controls was remediated in fiscal 2020, there can be no assurance that similar control issues will not be identified in future periods. due to the types of products we sell and the significant amount of sales we make to government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to u.s. government agencies, we expect to continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security, network compromises and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems. were any future attacks to be successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have regularly implemented improvements to our protective measures which include, but are not limited to, the following: firewalls, endpoint detection and response software, patches, log monitors, event correlation tools, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, dual factor identification, data partitioning and routine password modifications. as a result of the material weakness in our internal controls resulting from the it systems compromise in 2019, we have taken remediation actions and implemented additional controls and we plan to continue to take further actions to attempt to address evolving threats. however, recent system improvements have not been fully effective in preventing attacks on our data and breaches to our security, and there can be no assurance that any future system improvements will be effective in preventing attacks or breaches or limiting the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions. such system improvements have resulted in increased costs to us and any future improvements, attacks or disruptions could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, providing notices to regulatory agencies or other third parties, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate future control deficiencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. as discussed in item 9a controls and procedures in our annual report on form 10-k for fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to it system access. although such material weaknesses were remediated in fiscal 2020, internal controls are important to accurately reflect our financial position and results of operations in our financial 18 table of contents reports and there can be no assurance that similar control issues will not be identified in future periods. if we are unable to remediate any future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in an appropriate and timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and consequently, our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and ability to access capital markets. ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with united states generally accepted accounting principles. we are required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. in addition to the identified material weaknesses related to accounting for income taxes and to it system access, which were remediated as of march 31, 2020, we have from time to time identified significant deficiencies related to other matters. if we fail to remediate any future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies or to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the financial accounting standards board (fasb) and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to public health concerns (such as the covid-19 virus), natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents, or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include public health concerns (including viral outbreaks such as the covid-19 virus), work stoppages, power loss, insufficient water, cyber attacks, computer network compromises, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. for example, recent restrictions on travel have adversely impacted our manufacturing operations in the philippines and our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in malaysia and china. similar challenges have arose for our logistics service providers, which adversely impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. in particular, recent restrictions on travel have impacted our manufacturing operations in the philippines and our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in malaysia and china. similar challenges have arisen for our logistics service providers, which has impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. the impact of such interruptions on our lead times and ability to fulfill orders was minimal in the fiscal quarter ended march 31, 2020, but we have seen increased impacts since then which we expect to adversely impact our business in the fiscal quarter ended june 30, 2020 and which could continue to adversely impact our business in future periods. in the future, local governments could require us to temporarily reduce production further or cease operations at any of our facilities and we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders. additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. we have received a greater number of order cancellations and requests by our customers to reschedule deliveries to future dates. some customers are requesting order cancellations within our firm order window and are claiming applicability of force majeure clauses. 19 table of contents likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. such customer and licensee disruptions are expected to adversely impact our business in the fiscal quarter ended june 30, 2020 and we cannot accurately predict whether such disruptions will continue in subsequent periods. also, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support oem production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings, investigations or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings, investigations or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, product failures, our microsemi acquisition, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, have in the past and could in the future result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-effective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. 20 table of contents it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries, economic damage or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders or unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages or penalties. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into or from which we ship our products could levy fines, restrict or delay our ability to export or transfer products, or increase costs associated with the manufacture or transfer of products. a significant portion of our sales are made through the exporting and importing of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations, international traffic in arms regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to transfer product to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. for example, in fiscal 2019, the u.s. commerce department banned u.s. companies from selling products or transferring technology to zte, a chinese company, and certain of its subsidiaries. this ban was lifted in july 2018. in fiscal 2020, the u.s. commerce department banned u.s. companies from selling products or transferring technology to certain chinese companies, including huawei and certain of its subsidiaries. recent amendments made to the export administration 21 table of contents regulation (ear) pursuant to prohibitions of items with a military end use in china, russia, and venezuela, 85 fed. reg. 23459, and elimination of ear license exception civ, 85 fed. reg. 23470, which are effective june 2020, apply to a greater number of our products than previous versions of the regulations. these changes could adversely impact our operational costs due to the administrative impacts of complying with these regulations, and may limit those with whom we conduct business. any one or more of these sanctions, future sanctions, a change in laws or regulations, or a prohibition on shipment of our products or transfer of our technology to significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for certain of our products associated with our microsemi acquisition, we rely on u.s. export licenses to ship our products to non-u.s. customers. in 2018, there was a federal government shutdown from january 20, 2018 to january 23, 2018 and a second shutdown from december 22, 2018 through january 25, 2019. due to the u.s. federal government shutdown, the agency that approves these export licenses was temporarily closed. this resulted in a delay in certain shipments that were scheduled to ship within the quarter. although this delay did not result in a material adverse impact on our revenue in previous quarters, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenue within the quarter of any future government shutdown, and in the following quarter depending on the ability of the governmental agency to expedite processing of licenses delayed during the shutdown. additionally, certain of our products associated with our microsemi acquisition ship from jurisdictions that microchip did not previously ship from. this makes us subject to different jurisdictional export regulations for different products. although a delay in approval of exports from any single jurisdiction is unlikely to result in a material adverse impact on our revenue in the short term, a denial in approval of exports could over the longer term have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods and implemented trade restrictions on materials and products. trade tensions between the u.s. and china escalated in 2018 and 2019, including the u.s. increasing tariffs on chinese origin goods, and china increasing tariffs on u.s. goods. some of our products were adversely affected and are continuing to be affected by the increased tariffs. higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs were announced as recently as september 2019. we have taken steps to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 . the additional tariffs imposed in 2019 on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china increased our costs but did not have a material adverse impact on our operating results in fiscal 2020 as we were able to make adjustments in operations and supply to mitigate the effects of these tariffs. increased tariffs on our customers' products could impact their sales of their products, and increased tariffs on our products in comparison to those of our competitors could each result in lower demand for our products. further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, restrictions on exports or other trade barriers, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks including risks from increases in tariffs. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2020, approximately 78% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 21% in china and 15% in taiwan. during fiscal 2019, approximately 80% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 22% in china and 13% in taiwan. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition and, economic weakness in the china market has recently made it more difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. in particular, the trade relationship between the u.s. and china has worsened, economic conditions in china remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. in 2019 the u.s. government increased tariffs on products that have china as their country of origin and which are imported into the u.s. likewise, the china government increased tariffs on products that have the u.s. as their country of origin and which are imported into china. we have taken steps to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. although these increases in tariffs did not result in significant increases to the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 . the additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from china did increase our costs but did not have a material adverse impact on our operating results in fiscal 2020 as we were able to make adjustments in operations and supply to mitigate the effects of these tariffs. additionally, tariffs on our customers' products could impact their sales of such end products, 22 table of contents resulting in lower demand for our products. we may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our customers. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. a large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. as part of our atmel acquisition, we acquired a test facility in calamba, philippines. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability due to the covid-19 virus or other factors; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; potentially adverse tax consequences; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions (including viral outbreaks such as the covid-19 virus); and difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer, we could face an increase in the cost of components, production delays, general business interruptions, delays from difficulties in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. our contractual relationships with our customers expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our non-distributor customers, and therefore we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had approximately 120,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 12% of our total revenue for fiscal 2020 and six of our top ten direct customers are contract manufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on 23 table of contents our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement, product failure, or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. further, where we do not have negotiated contracts with our customers, the terms of our customer's orders may govern the transaction and contain terms that are not favorable to us. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. reliance on government contracts and sales to governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant portion of the sales of microsemi (which we acquired in may 2018) are from or are derived from government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to u.s. government agencies. such sales are subject to uncertainties regarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities, regulatory and policy changes. future sales to u.s. government agencies or their prime customers are also subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the constraints of the budgetary process, changes in the timing and potential spending priorities and the impact of any past or future government shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, future sequestrations, or the impact of the covid-19 virus. for example, as a result of the covid-19 virus, we currently have suspensions and stop work orders in place for some of our subcontracts and we do not know when work on those projects will restart or what additional measures (such as purchasing additional protective gear) we will need to take to be able to again perform work at those sites. although such actions have not yet had a material adverse impact on our business, there can be no assurance as to the future costs or implications of such actions. sales to government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to u.s. government agencies are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary, regulatory, tax and trade policies implemented by current or future administrations or by the u.s. congress. in the past, microsemi has experienced delays and reductions in appropriations on programs that included its products. for example, there were federal government shutdowns from january 20, 2018 to january 23, 2018 and from december 22, 2018 through january 25, 2019. further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the u.s. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if the u.s. government fails to complete its annual budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which time we may experience further delays and reductions in appropriations or reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. while we generally function as a subcontractor in these type of transactions, further changes in u.s. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs or increase compliance obligations (such as the cybersecurity maturity model certification), may adversely impact the contracting environment and our operating results. the u.s. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with microsemi or us at any time. for example, in 2014, microsemi had a $75 million contract terminated for convenience by the u.s. government. uncertainty with respect to government spending and termination of contracts associated with government related projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue and other benefits we achieve from our microsemi acquisition. our business related to u.s. governmental agencies or customers not only requires us to comply with the contract terms, but also with applicable governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers. maintaining compliance with these regulations, including any audit requirements, requires that we devote significant resources to such matters in terms of training, personnel, information technology and facilities. any failure to maintain compliance with these requirements may result in fines and penalties and loss of current or future business that may materially and adversely affect our operating results. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. 24 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro, thai baht and taiwan dollar, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that any weakness or strength in the u.s. dollar will have on our business or results of operations. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to employee health matters, certain property, product defects, cybersecurity matters, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply, or the failure of entities that we have acquired over time to have complied, with applicable regulations could result in significant fines, liability for clean up, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future, to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations' logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in the quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we pass these requirements regarding operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may in the future refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. if certain of our suppliers refuse to implement the required practices, we may be forced to identify and source from alternate suppliers. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, 25 table of contents resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on may 31, 2019. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that our supply chain is free from the risk of irresponsible sourcing, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are free from the risk of irresponsible sourcing. we have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different manner than advocated by the responsible minerals initiative or the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. in addition to concerns over conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo, our customers may also begin to require that additional minerals and substances used within our supply chain be evaluated and reported on. as our reporting obligations increase so will the operating costs associated with this obligation. this in turn could have negative effects on our overall operating profits. the outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2007 and later. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2007 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these or any future examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations (including the act), changes in the interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the u.s. the adoption of the act significantly changed the taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creating new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. the act is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and continued implementation of regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the act, along with the state tax impact of these changes and potential future cash distributions, will likely have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the 26 table of contents taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. the organization for economic cooperation and development has been working on a base erosion and profit shifting project, and issued a report in 2015, an interim report in 2018, and is expected to continue to issue guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. similarly, the european commission and several countries have issued proposals that would change various aspects of the current tax framework under which we are taxed. these proposals include changes to the existing framework to calculate income tax, as well as proposals to change or impose new types of non-income taxes, including taxes based on a percentage of revenue. in april 2020, we became aware of a withholding tax regulation that could be interpreted to apply to certain of our previous intra-group transactions. we are evaluating whether the interpretation of this regulation could apply to our facts and circumstances, and, upon conclusion of our analysis, we may establish a reserve related to this matter in a subsequent period. an estimate of the impact on the financial statements cannot be made at this time. anti-takeover defenses in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage takeover attempts, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of microchip. these provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the holders of 50% or more of the combined voting power of all classes of our capital stock, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. the application of section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock. as a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets. when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. the amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. as of march 31, 2020 , we had goodwill of $6.66 billion and net intangible assets of $5.70 billion . in connection with the completion of our acquisition of microsemi in may 2018, our balance of goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly. we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash 27 table of contents flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2020 or fiscal 2019 . in fiscal 2020 , we recognized $2.2 million of intangible asset impairment charges and in fiscal 2019 , we recognized $3.1 million of intangible asset impairment charges. if in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements . our foreign pension plans are unfunded, and any requirement to fund these plans in the future could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. in connection with our acquisitions of microsemi and atmel, we assumed defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our french and german employees. plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. the projected benefit obligation totaled $70.0 million at march 31, 2020 . most of these plans are unfunded in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. we expect to pay approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2021 for benefits earned. should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. from time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations. if we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. from time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from european governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. the subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditures and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, 28 table of contents and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona, thailand, and the philippines. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as of march 31, 2020 , our long-term debt totaled $10.59 billion . we have no interest rate exposure to rate changes on our fixed rate debt, which totaled $5.86 billion as of march 31, 2020 . we do have interest rate exposure with respect to the $4.73 billion balance of our variable interest rate debt outstanding as of march 31, 2020 . a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would impact our expected annual interest expense for the next 12 months by approximately $23.6 million .quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, was $208.7 million as of march 31, 2003, and $247.6 million as of march 31, 2002. these securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. if market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from the levels of march 31, 2003 and march 31, 2002, the decline in the fair value of our investment portfolio would not be material given that the our investments typically have interest rate reset features that regularly adjust to current market rates. additionally, we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows. we have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. to date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. if foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at march 31, 2003 and march 31, 2002, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would not be material given that we enter into foreign-currency forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations. during the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this item 7a, and collectability of accounts receivable. we continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $462.9 million as of march 31, 2004, and $208.7 million as of march 31, 2003. these securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): financial instruments mature during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 26,550 $ 196,890 $ 50,227 $ $ 86,699 $ 8,850 weighted-average yield rate 1.76 % 2.06 % 2.24 % 3.47 % 1.07 % we have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. to date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. approximately 99% of our sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. at times we maintain hedges of foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. the amounts of the hedges outstanding as of march 31, 2004 and march 31, 2003 were immaterial. if foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at march 31, 2004 and march 31, 2003, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would not be material. 39 during the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this item 7a, and collectability of accounts receivable. we continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future.risk factors 11 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability . our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers levels of inventories at our customers the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory 11 changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields our ability to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity availability of raw materials and equipment competitive developments including pricing pressures the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter the level of sell-through of our products through distribution changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers costs and outcomes of any tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues disruptions in our business or our customers businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system property damage or other losses which are not covered by insurance general economic, industry or political conditions in the united states or internationally we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance. in future periods our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have proven our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results may suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the market for embedded control applications. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. 12 our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications product introductions by our competitors the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the needs of our customers, and general market and economic conditions. historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our serial eeprom and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. we have experienced in the past and expect to continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our serial eeprom products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2004. our two largest distributors together accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and both we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advanced notice. we believe that customers recognize microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. during fiscal 2006 we reduced the gross margin that certain of our distributors earn when they sell our products. we reduced these distributors gross margins because we believe these distributors did not have sufficient technical sales resources to properly address the marketplace for our products. we have added a significant number of technical sales employees throughout our worldwide sales organization to address the support requirements for both our oem and distribution customers. we cannot predict the impact, if any, that our actions will have on our relationships with such distributors. the loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given period and could result in an increase in inventory returns. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection timely completion and introduction of new product designs development of support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use, and market acceptance of our customers end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to 13 design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel is intense in our market. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. we are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us. we use several contractors located in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. we also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operations or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. further, procurement from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. in such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs, decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. the raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts. an interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad strength in our overall business in recent periods has had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations 14 in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. we were involved in patent infringement litigation with philips corporation which was settled in fiscal 2005. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. these legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our product line or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in value of inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expenses related to the defense of such claims, increased costs associated with the replacement of affected products, and a requirement to pay damages claims. because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, these expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits the company received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have product liability insurance, but there is no certainty that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty or product liability claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of their systems could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause the system failures. based on our historical experience, we believe that the risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low. however, we will face increased exposure to product liability claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications and the frequency of system failures caused by our devices. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. we do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers . we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we have over 50,000 end customers and our ten largest customers make up approximately 10% of our total revenue, cancellation of long-term and short-term customer contracts could have an adverse financial impact on our revenue and profits. further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. under these contracts we commit to supply quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates. if we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality related issues. under these contracts, we may be liable for the costs the customer has incurred. while we try to limit such liabilities, if they should arise, there may be a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. 15 business interruptions could harm our business. operations at any of our manufacturing facilities, or at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis. if this occurs, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. in addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2006, approximately 74% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. during fiscal 2005, approximately 73% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. during fiscal 2004, approximately 71% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near bangkok, thailand. we also use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability public health conditions trade restrictions and changes in tariffs import and export license requirements and restrictions difficulties in staffing and managing international operations employment regulations disruptions in international transport or delivery fluctuations in currency exchange rates difficulties in collecting receivables economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us, and potentially adverse tax consequences. if any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. interruptions in information technology systems could affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, and energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. we have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits may affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the increased premium costs in place since the disruption in the insurance market after the events of september 11, 2001. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to, product defects, 16 political risks, and patent infringement. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, result of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. we are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. although we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. any such environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities. further, certain of our customers shipping their products into european markets are also subject to governmental environmental regulations such as the restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive (rohs) which will be effective july 1, 2006. these directives focus on limiting the amounts of certain elements, such as lead, in electrical devices. the inability of this sub-set of our customers to use microchip products which contain lead after july 2006 may adversely affect our results of operations. compliance with future changes to securities laws and related regulations could result in increased costs to us. changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and rules enacted and proposed by the securities and exchange commission (sec), the nasdaq stock market (nasdaq) and the new york stock exchange (nyse), resulted in significantly increased costs to us in fiscal 2005 as we responded to their requirements. in particular, complying with the internal control audit requirements of sarbanes-oxley section 404 in fiscal 2005 resulted in increased internal efforts and significantly higher fees from our independent accounting firm. in fiscal 2006, our costs associated with these activities were at approximately the same levels as in fiscal 2005. further changes in applicable legal or accounting requirements could result in additional costs in future periods. this report on form 10-k contains a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of march 31, 2006. this form 10-k also contains an attestation and report by our auditors with respect to our management assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under section 404. while these assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, compliance with section 404 is an ongoing process and will be required for each future fiscal year. we expect that the ongoing compliance with section 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there can be no assurance that material weaknesses with not be identified in future periods. any adverse results from such ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. recent regulations related to equity compensation will adversely affect our earnings and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages and have accounted for them using the intrinsic value method of apb no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees. we believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with microchip. in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payments, ( sfas 123r ) which changed u.s. generally accepted accounting principles in such a way to require us to record a charge to earnings for the fair value of employee stock option grants and other share based compensation beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. this regulation will negatively impact our earnings for those share based awards that vest beginning in fiscal 2007. furthermore, adoption of sfas 123r will require us to make certain assumptions and judgments in the valuation of stock options that we may grant in the future. a change in any of those assumptions or judgments could change the compensation expense that is charged against our earnings and, consequently, adversely affect our results of operations. see also note 1 to the consolidated financial statements significant accounting policies: share-based payment. 17 in addition, recent regulations implemented by nasdaq requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans as well as recent regulations implemented by nyse prohibiting nyse member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us to grant equity-based awards to employees in the future. to the extent that these or other new regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur compensation costs, productivity losses, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors changes in analysts estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance general conditions in the semiconductor industry, and worldwide economic and financial conditions. in addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market price of our common stock. the outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the irs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. in the event we make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions or attain the anticipated benefits. while acquisitions do not represent a major part of our growth strategy, from time to time we may consider financially attractive and strategic acquisitions if such opportunities arise. any transactions that we complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture, or possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process. in addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities and money market funds that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,285.1 million as of march 31, 2006, and $728.7 million as of march 31, 2005. these securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. we have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 36 financial instruments mature during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 76,860 $ 113,473 $ 201,261 $ 205,626 $ $ 122,631 weighted-average yield rate 3.82 % 3.38 % 3.81 % 4.20 % 4.45 % we have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. to date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. approximately 99% of our sales are denominated in u.s. dollars. we maintain hedges related to our foreign currency exposure of our net investment in a foreign operation as needed. there were no hedges outstanding as of march 31, 2005. the amounts of the hedges outstanding as of march 31, 2006 and march 31, 2004 were immaterial. if foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at march 31, 2006 and march 31, 2005, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would not be material. during the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this item 7a, and collectability of accounts receivable. we continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future.risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39risk factors 13 risk factors when evaluating microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other documents that we file with the securities and exchange commission. our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the u.s. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in tax regulations and policies in the u.s. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the act); new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices, including the impact of the new revenue recognition standard (asc 606) on our financial statements; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions including our pending acquisition of microsemi; our ability to ramp our factory capacity to meet customer demand; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; our ability to successfully transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation or claims involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. in future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. uncertain global economic conditions, the ongoing economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength and duration of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. 13 table of contents we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures including our pending acquisition of microsemi. we have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. on march 1, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire microsemi. we expect the acquisition of microsemi to close in june 2018. in addition, in april 2016, we completed our acquisition of atmel; and in august 2015, we completed our acquisition of micrel. the integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. we may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. there may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. we may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company, or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. we may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. we have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. in particular, as a result of our atmel acquisition, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation and disputes related to the atmel business. see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding pending litigation. acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. to fund our pending acquisition of microsemi, we plan to use a significant portion of our cash balances and incur approximately $8.0 billion of additional debt through borrowings under our credit agreement and issuance of new debt. we may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to assets or a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. we may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the assets or businesses. such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. these transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. as of march 31, 2018 , the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $4,481.3 million . in february 2017, we issued $2,645.0 million of aggregate principal value of senior and junior convertible debt and amended our existing credit agreement to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios. the february 2017 credit agreement amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property. we used a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the 2017 senior and junior convertible debt to settle $431.3 million in principal value of our 2007 junior debt and $1,682.5 million to pay off the outstanding balance under our credit facility. at march 31, 2018 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit facility which had a capacity of $3,122.3 million and is comprised of one tranche expiring in february 2020. in connection with the closing of our pending acquisition of microsemi, we expect to incur approximately $8.0 billion of additional debt through borrowings under our credit agreement and issuance of new debt. as a result of such transactions, we will have a substantially greater amount of debt than we had maintained in the past. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may need or desire to refinance our convertible debt or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 14 table of contents servicing our current debt and expected debt to finance the microsemi acquisition will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to fund future payments. our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding debentures and expected debt to be incurred to finance our acquisition of microsemi, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors. our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to fund capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases or acquisitions. if we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. we are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and therefore have limited visibility to future product shipments. our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. we measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. as a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. if we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. the semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. we compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant merger and acquisition activity and consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. 15 table of contents historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. the average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products have declined over time. the overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. we have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products. we may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. we are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our superflash and other technologies also rely on foundries and other contractors. we rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. specifically, during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 , approximately 42% and 41% , respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. we also use several contractors located primarily in asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. specifically, during fiscal 2018 , approximately 58% of our assembly requirements and 36% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 64% of our assembly requirements and 40% of our test requirements during fiscal 2017 . our reliance on third party contractors and foundries increased as a result of our acquisitions of atmel, micrel, smsc, supertex and issc. microsemi relies on wafer foundries for a significant portion of its wafer fabrication needs. accordingly, upon completion of our acquisition of microsemi, our reliance on third party contractors and foundries will increase significantly. the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. our use of third parties somewhat reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if the countries in which such contractors are located were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. if these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner on terms favorable to us, or at all. additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies that we desire to control costs. in any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. further, our use of subcontractors increases the risks of potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. certain of our superflash and other technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. if our licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from outside wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. the manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable cmos memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. these processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. this could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for our failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. although we operated at normal capacity levels during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 , there can be no assurance that such production levels will be maintained in future periods. 16 table of contents our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business tends to generate historically stronger revenues in the first and second quarters and comparatively weaker revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. however, broad fluctuations in our overall business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions, and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of atmel and our pending acquisition of microsemi) can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. as a result, in periods when these broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. the semiconductor industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. we have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products, that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. however, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. our business is dependent on selling through distributors. sales through distributors accounted for approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 and approximately 55% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 . we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. any future adverse conditions in the u.s. or global economies or in the u.s. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. in addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in demand for our products from our distributors, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or similar laws, by our distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. the success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: effective new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. in addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. we may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant r&amp;d expenditures. we and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 17 table of contents we may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. we generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. the materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. this could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. we have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. in particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for equipment which we need for capacity expansion at certain of our manufacturing facilities. an interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices, including asc 606 which will impact our revenue recognition. we prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the fasb and the sec. new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. new accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. in may 2014, the fasb issued accounting standards update (asu) 2014-09 - revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606) , which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under generally accepted accounting principles in the unites states of america (us gaap). the standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. upon our adoption of asu 2014-09 beginning with our fiscal year commencing on april 1, 2018, we will no longer defer revenue until sale by the distributor to the end customer, but rather, will be required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor. refer to note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the new guidance and its expected impact on us. business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. these reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, cyber attacks, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. in particular, thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. while our facilities in thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that any future flooding in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. if operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. if we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. this could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. in the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. 18 table of contents our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . our technology licensing business is based on our superflash and other technologies. the success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technologies and to introduce new technologies in the future. to be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. the success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support original equipment manufacturers (oem) production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. there can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. we could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. we are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, product failures, contracts and other matters. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from third parties from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against us, our direct or indirect customers or our licensees. these legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial costs to us and divert our resources. if we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, provide a cost-effective remedy, or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. it is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. these claims may be due to injuries, economic damage or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected customer system issues due to the integration of our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. we could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders or unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages or penalties. 19 table of contents because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, the expenses and damages we are asked to pay may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. while we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. we do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, defense, safety, security, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. we may be subject to claims if our products, or the integration of our products, cause system failures. we will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. to that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. the process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. in addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not have sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. we may be subject to, or may ourselves initiate, interference proceedings in the u.s. patent and trademark office, patent offices of a foreign country or u.s. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. we regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. however, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. the financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. we are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. during fiscal 2018 , approximately 85% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 30% in china. during fiscal 2017 , approximately 84% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 32% in china. a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the market for integrated circuit products in china is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. increased competition or economic weakness in the china market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in china. in particular, economic conditions in china remain uncertain and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. we purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. in addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities near bangkok, thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. a large portion of our finished goods inventory is maintained in thailand. from time to time, thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. there can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. as part of our atmel acquisition, we acquired a test facility in calamba, philippines. we use various foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. 20 table of contents our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; potentially adverse tax consequences; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions; and difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles. if any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. our contractual relationships with our customers expose us to risks and liabilities. we do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and therefore we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. when we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. even though we had over 119,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 11% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018 and five of our top ten direct customers are contract manufacturers that perform manufacturing services for many customers, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. we have contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. for several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. for example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. if we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. we may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. while we try to minimize the number of contracts which contain such provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we are not able to do so. in order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement, product failure, or confidentiality. such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. further, where we do not have negotiated contracts with our customers, the terms of our customer's orders may govern the transaction and contain terms that are not favorable to us. these significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. with respect to our pending acquisition of microsemi, a significant portion of their sales are, or may be derived from u.s. government agencies or customers whose principal sales are to u.s. government agencies. such sales are subject to significant uncertainties regarding government spending and policy changes. also, the u.s. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with microsemi at any time. uncertainty with respect to governmental spending and policies, or termination of contracts associated with governmental projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenues and other benefits that we achieve from the microsemi acquisition. prior to the microsemi transaction, microchip has not derived significant sales from government related customers. 21 table of contents we must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. the competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. we may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. the loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. we have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. we use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-u.s. dollar net balance sheet exposures. nevertheless, in periods when the u.s. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-u.s. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-u.s. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the u.s. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. in periods when the u.s. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the british pound, euro and thai baht, the operational costs in our european and thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. although our business has not been materially adversely impacted by recent changes in the value of the u.s. dollar, there can be no assurance as to the future impact that any weakness or strength in the u.s. dollar will have on our business or results of operations. interruptions in our information technology systems, or improper handling of data, could adversely affect our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by any such disruptions or security breaches. additionally, any failure to properly manage the collection, handling, transfer or disposal of personal data of employees and customers may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, litigation, fines and other sanctions. from time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our it systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects until significant harm is done. in recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, event correlation tools, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. there can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attacks or disruptions. any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of our internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. such attacks or disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. third-party service providers, such as wafer foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our and our customers' sensitive data. in the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard the data that they hold, security breaches and loss of data could result. any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results, as well as our relationship with our customers. 22 table of contents the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. we have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. in these circumstances, we believe that it is more cost effective for us to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. the risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, environmental matters, political risks, and intellectual property matters. should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control or remediate current or future deficiencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with united states generally accepted accounting principles. we are required to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. although we have never identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we have from time to time identified significant deficiencies. if we fail to remediate these significant deficiencies or to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. we are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. we must comply with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future, to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations' logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. there is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. these and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. in addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in the quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. it may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. we may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold unsaleable inventory as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. we expect these risks and trends to continue. in addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products, energy efficiency measures, and supplier practices associated with sourcing and manufacturing. these requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than existing legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. some of our customers and potential customers are requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. to comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or may charge us more for complying with them. the cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue 23 table of contents opportunities. developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. customer demands and regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. as required by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, in august 2012, the sec released investigation, disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of "conflict" minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and which are necessary to the functionality or production of products. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on may 31, 2017. other countries are considering similar regulations. if we cannot certify that we are using conflict-free minerals, customers may demand that we change the sourcing of minerals and other materials used in the manufacture of our products, even if the costs for compliant minerals and materials significantly increases and availability is limited. if we make changes to materials or suppliers, there will likely be costs associated with qualifying new suppliers and production capacity and quality could be negatively impacted. our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to certify that our products are "conflict-free." we have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs associated with complying with these new disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. we may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free in a materially different manner than advocated by the responsible minerals initiative or the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export or transfer products. a significant portion of our sales are made through the exporting and importing of products. in addition to local jurisdictions' trade regulations, our u.s.-manufactured products or products based on u.s. technology are subject to u.s. laws and regulations governing international trade, including, but not limited to the foreign corrupt practices act, export administration regulations (ear), international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and denied entities administered by the u.s. department of the treasury, office of foreign assets control (ofac). licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. a determination by the u.s. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with trade or export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to transfer product to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities for fiscal 2005 and later. we are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2007 and later. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these or any future examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial position and results of operations. exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in tax rules and regulations (including the act), changes in the interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition and results of operations we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies. our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates at the time of the respective financial period. our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. 24 table of contents currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the u.s., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside of the u.s. recently enacted u.s. tax legislation will significantly change the taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations, by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creating new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. the new legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. a significant portion of our earnings are earned by our subsidiaries outside the u.s. changes to the taxation of certain foreign earnings resulting from the newly enacted u.s. tax legislation, along with the state tax impact of these changes and potential future cash distributions, will likely have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. the foregoing items could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; developments with respect to timely completion or financing of our pending acquisition of microsemi; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; any other acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. in addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. these broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. anti-takeover defenses in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage takeover attempts, which could also reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of microchip. these provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. these provisions include: the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the holders of 50% or more of the combined voting power of all classes of our capital stock, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. 25 table of contents in addition, as a delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. the application of section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. any of these provisions could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock. as a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets including impairments related to microsemi following our completion of our acquisition of such company. when we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. the amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. as of march 31, 2018 , we had goodwill of $2,299.0 million and net intangible assets of $1,662.0 million . in connection with the completion of our pending acquisition of microsemi, our balance of goodwill and intangible assets will increase significantly. we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. no goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2018 or in fiscal 2017 . no material intangible asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2018 . in fiscal 2017 , we recognized $11.9 million of intangible asset impairment charges. if in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. our foreign pension plans are unfunded, and any requirement to fund these plans in the future could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. in connection with our acquisition of atmel, we assumed unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain of our french and german employees. plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. the projected benefit obligation totaled $61.0 million at march 31, 2018 . the plans are unfunded in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. we expect to pay approximately $0.9 million in fiscal 2019 for benefits earned. should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. from time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations. if we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits previously paid to us and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. from time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from european governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. the subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. noncompliance by us with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. the conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. if upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. if the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount 26 table of contents of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). there would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. the conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change pose regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct business. climate change regulations at the federal, state or local level or in international jurisdictions could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. these regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. new permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. in addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. the cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, and higher costs of water or energy to control the temperature of our facilities. certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as arizona, thailand, and the philippines. some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt our business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $2,196.6 million as of march 31, 2018 compared to $1,410.3 million as of march 31, 2017 . in fiscal 2018, an other-than-temporary-impairment was recognized as we intend to sell our investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 to fund our pending acquisition of microsemi. our available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of march 31, 2018 . we have aggregated our available-for-sale securities by contractual maturity date for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in millions): financial instruments maturing during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter available-for-sale securities $ 246.5 $ 243.3 $ 802.7 $ $ $ weighted-average yield rate 1.70 % 1.93 % 1.91 % % % % see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our investments. 53 table of contents