quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is incorporated by reference from pages 30 through 33 of the 2003 annual report to shareholders.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is incorporated by reference from pages 24 through 27 of the 2004 annual report to shareholders. 36quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk back to contents the information required by item 7a is incorporated by reference from pages 27 through 30 of the 2005 annual report to shareholders.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is incorporated by reference from pages 29 through 33 of the 2006 annual report to shareholders.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is incorporated by reference from pages 28 through 31 of the 2007 annual report to shareholders.risk factors 17 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. in addition, the trading price of our securities could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and res ults of operations&quot; in the annual report. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including as a result of legislation or regulation or in times of financial distress. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations and on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt. 17 the credit markets and financial services industry have been experiencing a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their businesses could be adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's ratings could adversely affect its non-utility subsidiaries. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the sempra utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the sempra utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the sempra utilities. any such restrictions or approval requirements could adversely affect the lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or trading operations of our subsidiaries. sempra generation has various proceedings, inquiries and investigations relating to its business activities currently pending before the ferc. a description of such proceedings, inquiries and investigations is provided in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to decline and/or our costs to increase. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. the acquisition, ownership and operation of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our profitability. we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, global warming and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution 18 control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties, fines and/or curtailments of our operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxide, hydrofluorocarbon, perfluorocarbon and sulfur hexafluoride), may limit or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent california legislation and proposed federal legislation may adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing additional costs associated with emission limits and the possible require ment of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the sempra utilities may be affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. the effects of significantly tougher standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. in addition, sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could adversely affect us. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may adversely affect us and our facilities and operations. we provide additional information about these matters in note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. such facilities include generation chartered oil and lng tankers electric transmission and distribution natural gas pipelines and storage lng receipt terminals and storage such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause fires, leaks, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. insurance coverage may become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. in particular, sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of san diego county wildfires in 2007, and sempra generation is subject to extensive litigation regarding a major long-term power agreement. we discuss these and other litigation in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated an increasing willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 19 we discuss these proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. risks related to the sempra utilities the sempra utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislation and regulatory authorities, which may adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses. the cpuc regulates the sempra utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates, which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the sempra utilities' conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances and penalties that could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the sempra utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. the sempra utilities may spend funds related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may not be able to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. the cpuc periodically approves the sempra utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the cpuc, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, income potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant to increase earnings. at the sempra utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement. although the sempra utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the sempra utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances or penalties which could negatively affect earnings and cash flows. soc algas is also eligible for incentives, but is not subject to penalties, associated with unbundled gas storage activities. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the sempra utilities may be adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the sempra utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits and approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining required approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the sempra utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 20 sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of replacing steam generators or other equipment, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants. risks related to our electric generation, lng, pipelines &amp; storage and other businesses our businesses are exposed to market risk, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by fluctuations in commodity market prices that are beyond our control. sempra generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. it purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. as part of its risk management strategy, sempra generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio. we buy energy-related and other commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng regasification terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related and other commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries with respect to the supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. in 2001, the ferc imposed price limitations that resulted in unexpected moves in electricity prices. in the future, the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. 21 business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. the acquisition, development and construction of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements receipt of required governmental permits timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment supply adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our sales to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, such as the 10-year power sales agreement between sempra generation and the dwr that expires in 2011, our sales may be subject to increased price volatility. as a result, we may be unable to sell the power generated by sempra generation's facilities or operate those facilities profitably. sempra lng utilizes its regasification terminals by entering into long-term firm capacity service agreements. under these agreements, customers pay sempra lng fees to use its facilities to regasify the customer's lng. sempra lng also may enter into long-term supply agreements to purchase lng, which is regasified at its terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to substantially reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying supply prices to prevailing natural gas price market indices. however, if sempra lng is unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and f inancial condition. in addition, reduced availability of lng to the united states due to inadequate supplies, increased demand and higher prices in other countries, and delays in the development of new liquefaction capacity could affect the timing of development 22 of new lng facilities and expansion of existing facilities. these conditions also are likely to delay near-term attainment of full-capacity utilization at our facilities. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra pipelines &amp; storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on supplies of natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include sempra lng facilities. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations under such agreements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra lng's obligations and those of its suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to 1) suspension or termination for &quot;force majeure&quot; events beyond the control of the parties; and 2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of capital for breach of the agreements. if california's dwr were to succeed in setting aside, or were to fail to perform its obligations under its long-term power contract with sempra generation, our business, results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. in 2001, sempra generation entered into a 10-year power sales agreement with the dwr to supply up to 1,900 mw to the state. the validity of the power sales agreement with the dwr continues to be the subject of extensive litigation between the parties before the ferc, in the courts and in arbitration proceedings. if the dwr were to succeed in setting aside its obligations under the contract, or if the dwr fails or is unable to meet its contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. these proceedings are described in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. as described in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we unilaterally reduced our price to the dwr in connection with an agreement to settle other litigation. we rely on transportation assets and services that we do not own or control to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: 1) deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, 2) supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and 3) provide retail energy services to customers. sempra pipelines &amp; storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra lng also relies on specialized ships to transport lng to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our products and services may be hindered. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative supply at then-current spot market rates. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. therefore, our hedging procedures may not work as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas, and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, 23 we may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. however, we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and lng terminal projects in mexico. sempra pipelines &amp; storage has ownership interests in electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in argentina, chile and peru. we have an ownership interest in rbs sempra commodities, which has trading, marketing and risk management operations in canada, europe and asia. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations related to foreign operations high rates of inflation changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations in operations outside the u.s. adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits, difficulty in enforcing contractual rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions general political, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in increased taxes in foreign countries. while sempra pipelines &amp; storage believes that it has contracts and other measures in place to mitigate its most significant foreign currency exchange risks, some exposure is not fully mitigated. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage. sempra energy is a partner with the royal bank of scotland (rbs) in rbs sempra commodities, a commodities-marketing firm in which we invested $1.6 billion. rbs, which has been greatly affected by the world-wide turmoil in banking and is now indirectly controlled by the government of the united kingdom, is obligated to provide all of the additional capital required for the operation and expansion of the commodities-marketing business. 24 we also own a 25-percent interest in rockies express, a joint venture which is completing construction of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at an estimated cost of approximately $6.2 billion. rockies express is controlled by kinder morgan energy partners, which holds a 51-percent interest. we have also guaranteed a portion of the debt and other obligations of rbs sempra commodities and debt of rockies express as we discuss in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage. we do not control and have limited influence over these businesses and their management. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk&quot; in the annual report. 30risk factors 18 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. if any of the following occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. in addition, the trading price of our securities could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results o f operations&quot; in the annual report. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including as a result of legislation or regulation or in times of financial distress. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have recently experienced a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their businesses could be adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's ratings could adversely affect its non-utility subsidiaries. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. our business is subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the laws and regulations that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretat ions could materially affect our tax expense. future changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the sempra utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the sempra utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the sempra utilities. any such restrictions or approval requirements could adversely affect the lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or trading operations of our subsidiaries. sempra generation has various proceedings, inquiries and investigations relating to its business activities currently pending before the ferc. a description of such proceedings, inquiries and investigations is provided in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to decline and/or our costs to increase. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. the acquisition, ownership and operation of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our profitability. we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties, fines and/or curtailments of our operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may limit or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent california legislation and proposed federal legislation and regulation may adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the sempra utilities may be affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. in addition, sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could adversely affect us. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may adversely affect us and our facilities and operations. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 15, 16 and 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. such facilities include generation chartered lng tankers electric transmission and distribution natural gas pipelines and storage lng receipt terminals and storage such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause fires, leaks, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. insurance coverage may become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. in particular, sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of san diego county wildfires in 2007, and sempra generation is subject to extensive litigation regarding a major long-term power agreement. we discuss these and other litigation in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated an increasing willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we discuss these proceedings in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. risks related to the sempra utilities the sempra utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses. the cpuc regulates the sempra utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates, which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the sempra utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances and penalties that could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the sempra utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. the sempra utilities may spend funds related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may not be able to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. the cpuc periodically approves the sempra utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the cpuc, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant to increase earnings. at the sempra utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the sempra utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the sempra utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances or penalties which could negatively affect earnings and cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the sempra utilities may be adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the sempra utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits and approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining required approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the sempra utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of replacing steam generators or other equipment, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants. risks related to our electric generation, lng, pipelines &amp; storage, commodities marketing and other businesses our businesses are exposed to market risk, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by fluctuations in commodity market prices that are beyond our control. sempra generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. it purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. as part of its risk management strategy, sempra generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio. we buy energy-related and other commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng receipt terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related and other commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries with respect to the supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements receipt of required governmental permits timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment supply adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our sales to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, such as the 10-year power sales agreement between sempra generation and the dwr that expires in 2011, our sales may be subject to increased price volatility. as a result, we may be unable to sell the power generated by sempra generation's facilities or operate those facilities profitably. sempra lng utilizes its receipt terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay sempra lng capacity reservation fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. sempra lng also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at its terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas price market price indices. however, if sempra lng is unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, reduced availability of lng to the united states and mexico due to inadequate supplies, increased demand and higher prices in other countries, abundant domestic supplies of natural gas and delays in the development of new liquefaction capacity could affect the timing of development of new lng facilities and expansion of our existing lng facilities. these conditions also are likely to delay attainment of full-capacity utilization at our facilities. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra pipelines &amp; storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on supplies of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include sempra lng facilities. we provide information about these matters in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; and in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations under such agreements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra lng's obligations and those of its suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to 1) suspension or termination for &quot;force majeure&quot; events beyond the control of the parties; and 2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements. if california's dwr were to succeed in setting aside, or were to fail to perform its obligations under its long-term power contract with sempra generation, our business, results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. in 2001, sempra generation entered into a 10-year power sales agreement with the dwr to supply up to 1,900 mw to the state. the power sales agreement with the dwr continues to be the subject of extensive litigation between the parties before the ferc, in the courts and in arbitration proceedings. if the dwr were to succeed in setting aside its obligations under the contract, or if the dwr fails or is unable to meet its contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. these proceedings are described in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&quot; in the annual report. as described in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we unilaterally reduced our price to the dwr in connection with an agreement to settle other litigation. we rely on transportation assets and services that we do not own or control to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: 1) deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, 2) supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and 3) provide retail energy services to customers. sempra pipelines &amp; storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra lng also relies on specialized ships to transport lng to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our products and services may be hindered. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. our hedging procedures may not work as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and lng terminal projects in mexico. sempra pipelines &amp; storage has ownership interests in electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in argentina, chile and peru. we have an ownership interest in rbs sempra commodities, which has trading, marketing and risk management operations in canada, europe and asia. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations related to foreign operations high rates of inflation changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits, difficulty in enforcing contractual rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions general political, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in increased taxes in foreign countries. while sempra pipelines &amp; storage believes that it has contracts and other measures in place to mitigate its most significant foreign currency exchange risks, some exposure is not fully mitigated. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage. sempra energy is a partner with rbs in rbs sempra commodities, a commodities-marketing firm in which we invested $1.6 billion. rbs, which has been greatly affected by the world-wide turmoil in banking and is now indirectly controlled by the government of the united kingdom, is obligated to provide all of the additional capital required for the operation and expansion of the commodities-marketing business. as we discuss above under description of business, on february 16, 2010, sempra energy, rbs and rbs sempra commodities entered into an agreement to sell certain businesses within the joint venture. we also own a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a joint venture which completed construction in 2009 of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at an estimated cost of approximately $6.8 billion. rockies express is controlled by kinder morgan energy partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. we have also guaranteed a portion of the debt and other obligations of rbs sempra commodities and debt of rockies express as we discuss in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage. we do not control and have limited influence over these businesses and their management. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under &quot;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk&quot; in the annual report.risk factors 18 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. if any of the following occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. in addition, the trading price of our securities could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the annual report. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including as a result of legislation or regulation or in times of financial distress. our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have recently experienced a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&e were to be reduced, their businesses could be adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's ratings could adversely affect its non-utility subsidiaries. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot pre dict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. our business is subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the laws and regulations that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially affect our tax expense. changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the sempra utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly re ferred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the sempra utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the sempra utilities. any such restrictions or approval requirements could adversely affect the lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries. our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to decline and/or our costs to increase. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. the acquisition, ownership and operation of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our profitability. we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties, fines and/or curtailments of our operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may limit or otherwise adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emis sions credits. similarly, the sempra utilities may be affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. in addition, sdg&e may be subject to penalties if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could adversely affect us. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may adversely affect us and our facilities and operations. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in th e annual report. natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. such facilities include generation plants chartered lng tankers electric transmission and distribution natural gas pipelines and storage lng receipt terminals and storage such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause fires, leaks, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. we have spent, and continue to spend, substan tial amounts defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. in particular, sdg&e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of san diego county wildfires in 2007. we discuss this and other litigation in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated an increasing willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we discuss these proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the annual report. risks related to the sempra utilities the sempra utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses. the cpuc regulates the sempra utilities' rates, except sdg&e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the sempra utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances and penalties that could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the sempra utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in the annual report. the sempra utilities may spend funds related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may not be able to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. the cpuc periodically approves the sempra utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the cpuc, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. at the semp ra utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the sempra utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the sempra utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances or penalties which could negatively affect earnings and cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving sdg&e. the sempra utilities may be adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the sempra utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits and approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining required approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the sempra utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition cou ld be materially adversely affected. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs sdg&e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the san diego county wildfires in 2007. it expects that substantially all reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims that exceed its liability insurance coverage and any amounts recovered from other potentially responsible parties will be recovered from utility customers. however, recovery from customers will require future regulatory actions, and a failure to obtain recovery, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy and sdg&e cash flows and results of operations. in addition, sdg&e's cash flows may be adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recoveries from other potentially responsible parties and utility customers, which may extend over a number of years. sdg&e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities. sdg&e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. sdg&e's ownership interest in songs subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of replacing steam generators or other equipment, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants. risks related to our generation, lng, pipelines & storage and other businesses our businesses are exposed to market risk, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by fluctu ations in commodity market prices that are beyond our control. sempra generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. it purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. as part of its risk management strategy, sempra generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng receipt terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries with respect to the supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflation and interest rate risks. sempra generation, sempra pipelines & storag e and sempra lng generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials and equipment, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. to the extent possible, we may mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, or providing for cost escalation. however, these measures may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence oper ation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements receipt of required governmental permits timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment supply adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. the operati on of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competitio n. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. the 10-year power sales agreement between sempra generation and the dwr, which comprised 8 percent of our revenues in 2010, 9 percent in 2009 and 10 percent in 2008, expires in september 2011. as a result, we may be unable to sell the power generated by sempra generation's facilities or operate those facilities profitably. sempra lng utilizes its receipt terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay sempra lng capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. sempra lng also may e nter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at its terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. however, if sempra lng is unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, reduced availability of lng to the united states and mexico due to inadequate supplies, increased demand and higher prices in other countries, abundant domestic supplies of natural gas and/or delays in the development o f new liquefaction capacity could affect the timing of expansion of our existing lng facilities. these conditions also are likely to delay attainment of full-capacity utilization at our facilities. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra pipelines & storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on supplies of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include sempra lng facilities. we provide information about these matters in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performin g in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations under such agreements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to co llect amounts owed to us. sempra lng's obligations and those of its suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for "force majeure" events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements. we rely on transportation assets and services that we do not own or control to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: de liver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra pipelines & storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra lng also relies on specialized ships to transport lng to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our products and services may be hindered. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our custom ers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. our hedging procedures may not work as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would ne gatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and lng terminal projects in mexico and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in argentina, chile and peru, and we intend to significantly increase our interests in south america, as we discuss in note 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations related to foreign operations high rates of inflation changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits, difficulty in enforcing contractual rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions general political, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in increased taxes in foreign countries. while sempra pipelines & storage believes that it has contracts and other measures in place to mitigate its most significant foreign currency exchange risks, some exposure is not fully mitigated. we discuss litigation related to sempra lng's energ a costa azul lng receipt terminal in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial inve stments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage. sempra energy is a partner with rbs in rbs sempra commodities, a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss above under "description of business sempra commodities." our remaining investment in the partnership is $787 million at december 31, 2010. the realization of this investment, which is the undistributed portion of our share of the proceeds from the divestitures and related cash distributions, depends on the collection of accounts receivable by the partnership, as well as net margin that is expected to be collected as customers are transferred to the new owner of certain businesses sold. we have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by rbs sempra commodities, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we also own a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a joint venture which completed construction in 2009 of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at an estimated cost of approximately $6.8 billion. our investment in rockies express is $854 million at december 31, 2010. rockies express is controlled by kinder morgan energy partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. we also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, and we continue to make such investments. we may not control and have limited influence over these businesses and their management. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk" in the annual report.risk factors 24 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also materially impair our business operations. if any of the following occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. in addition, the trading price of our securities could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. our businesses may be materially adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have experienced a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their businesses could be materially adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's ratings could materially adversely affect sempra energy and its non-utility subsidiaries. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs if applicable. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially affect our tax expense. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and changes in the way regulations, laws and tariffs are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the sempra utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the sempra utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the sempra utilities. any such restrictions or approval requirements could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, ownership and operation of lng terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, certificates, and other approvals may be modified or rescinded by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain the necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the sempra utilities may be materially adversely affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could materially adversely affect our businesses and profitability. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our facilities, operations and profitability. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. such facilities include power generation plants chartered lng tankers electric transmission and distribution natural gas pipelines and storage lng terminals and storage nuclear waste storage facilities such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires, leaks, radioactive releases, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. in particular, sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of san diego county wildfires in 2007. we discuss this and other litigation in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we discuss these proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. new business technologies present a risk for attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid. cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and activities are a priority at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. the most significant cybersecurity risks to our businesses reside within the operations of our utilities. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces new cybersecurity risks associated with automated metering (virtually all of our sdg&amp;e customers have such metering) and with smart grid infrastructure. deployment of these new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on the utilities' information systems and, more importantly, on the integrity of the energy grid. while addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. such an attack to our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, or one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. risks related to the sempra utilities the sempra utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses. the cpuc regulates the sempra utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the sempra utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect results of operations and cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines under new regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the sempra utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the sempra utilities may spend significant amounts of money related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could materially adversely affect their businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the cpuc periodically approves the sempra utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the cpuc, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in interest rates may trigger mechanisms which determine the sempra utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect results of operations and cash flows, as we discuss under cost of capital in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. at the sempra utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the sempra utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the sempra utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material negative effect on their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the sempra utilities may be materially adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the sempra utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the sempra utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires superior execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the sempra utilities' businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the san diego county wildfires in 2007. it expects that substantially all reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims that exceed its liability insurance coverage and any amounts recovered from other potentially responsible parties will be recovered from utility customers. at december 31, 2011, sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheet includes a regulatory asset of $594 million associated with these costs. however, recovery from customers will require future regulatory actions, and a failure to obtain all or a significant portion of the expected recovery, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, sdg&amp;e's cash flows may be materially adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recoveries from other potentially responsible parties and utility customers, which may extend over a number of years. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of equipment maintenance, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants; and a substantial increase in oversight and new and more onerous regulations due to the nuclear disaster at japan's fukushima daiichi plant in early 2011. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our generation, lng, pipelines &amp; storage and other businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be materially adversely affected by these risks. sempra generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. it purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. as part of its risk management strategy, sempra generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio, which subjects us to the risk that the counterparty to such hedge may be unable to fulfill its obligations. such a failure could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries with respect to the supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra generation, sempra pipelines &amp; storage and sempra lng generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to so fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements receipt of required governmental permits timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, we may not be able to recover all or any part of our investment in the project. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. the 10-year power sales agreement between sempra generation and the dwr, which comprised 6 percent of our revenues in 2011, 8 percent in 2010 and 9 percent in 2009, expired september 30, 2011. as a result, we may be unable to sell the power that sempra generation's facilities are capable of producing, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sempra lng utilizes its terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay sempra lng capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. sempra lng also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at its terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. however, if sempra lng is unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, reduced availability of lng to the united states and mexico due to inadequate supplies, increased demand and higher prices in other countries, abundant domestic supplies of natural gas and/or delays in the development of liquefaction capability at our own receipt terminals, or worldwide, are likely to delay attainment of full-capacity utilization at our facilities. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra pipelines &amp; storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include sempra lng facilities. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to so perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements. should they fail to so perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many of our agreements are essential to the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra lng's obligations and those of its suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra pipelines &amp; storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra lng also relies on specialized ships to transport lng to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra generation relies on transmission lines to sell electricity to its customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. our hedging procedures may not work as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we own or have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and lng terminal projects in mexico, and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in argentina, chile and peru. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations related to foreign operations high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets general political, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows and results of operations. we discuss litigation related to sempra lng's energ a costa azul lng terminal in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage. sempra energy is a partner with rbs in rbs sempra commodities, a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss above under description of business rbs sempra commodities llp. our remaining investment in the partnership is $126 million at december 31, 2011. we expect the partnership to distribute substantially all of this amount to us in the first half of 2012. minor amounts may be retained by the partnership beyond 2012 to help offset unanticipated future general and administrative costs necessary to complete the dissolution of the partnership. we have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by rbs sempra commodities, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the partnership could have a corresponding effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, which is operated by edison. we also own a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a joint venture which completed construction in 2009 of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at a cost of $6.8 billion. our investment in rockies express is $800 million at december 31, 2011. rockies express is controlled by kinder morgan energy partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. sempra generation has investments in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. we also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, totaling $713 million at december 31, 2011. we continue to make such investments. we have limited influence over these and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 23 risk factors herein, our influence may be limited over businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest, including songs. we provide additional information concerning the songs units and nuclear decommissioning below in environmental matters and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and notes 6, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. nuclear fuel supply the nuclear fuel supply cycle includes materials and services performed by others under various contracts that extend through 2020. fuel supply contracts are index-priced and provide nuclear fuel through 2022, the expiration of songs' nrc license. spent fuel from songs is being stored on site in both the isfsi and spent fuel pools. with the completion of the current phase of decommissioning, the site has adequate space to build isfsi storage capacity through 2022. pursuant to the nuclear waste policy act of 1982, sdg&amp;e entered into a contract with the u.s. department of energy (doe) for spent-fuel disposal. under the agreement, the doe is responsible for the ultimate disposal of spent fuel from songs. sdg&amp;e pays the doe a disposal fee of $1.00 per megawatt-hour of net nuclear generation, or approximately $3 million per year when songs is operating at normal capacity. it is uncertain when the doe will begin accepting spent fuel from any nuclear generation facility. we provide additional information concerning nuclear fuel costs and the storage and movement of spent fuel in notes 6 and 15, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. power pool sdg&amp;e is a participant in the western systems power pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement with utilities and power agencies located throughout the united states and canada. more than 300 investor-owned and municipal utilities, state and federal power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers share power and information in order to increase efficiency and competition in the bulk power market. participants are able to make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the ferc. transmission arrangements sdg&amp;e's 500-kilovolt (kv) southwest powerlink transmission line, which is shared with arizona public service company and imperial irrigation district, extends from palo verde, arizona to san diego, california. sdg&amp;e's share of the line is 1,162 mw, although it can be less under certain system conditions. sdg&amp;e's sunrise powerlink is a 500-kv transmission line project built by sdg&amp;e and designed to deliver more than 1,000 mw of power from the imperial valley to the san diego region. the line was placed in service in june 2012. we provide further discussion of sunrise powerlink in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. mexico's baja california system is connected to sdg&amp;e's system via two 230-kv interconnections with combined capacity up to 408 mw in the north to south direction and 800 mw in the south to north direction, although it can be less under certain system conditions. edison's transmission is connected to sdg&amp;e's system at songs via five 230-kv transmission lines with a total firm capacity up to 2,500 mw into sdg&amp;e's system, although it can be less under certain system conditions. transmission access the national energy policy act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. the ferc approved the california ious' transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the independent system operator in 1998. we provide additional information regarding transmission issues in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. chilquinta energ a customers chilquinta energ a is an electric distribution utility serving approximately 620,000 customers in the cities of valparaiso and vi a del mar in central chile, with a main service area covering 4,400 square miles. at december 31, 2012, its customers consisted of approximately: 576,000 residential 36,000 commercial 1,000 industrial 5,000 street and highway lighting 5,000 agricultural in chile, customers are also classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on installed capacity. regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is less than 500 kilowatts (kw). non-regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is greater than 2,000 kw. customers with installed capacity between 500 kw and 2,000 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. non-regulated customers can buy power from other sources, such as directly from the generator. in 2012, chilquinta energ a added approximately 14,000 new customers at a growth rate of 2.3 percent. chilquinta energ a expects that its customer growth rate in 2013 will be comparable to that in 2012. chilquinta energ a's electric energy sales increased by approximately 178,000 megawatt hours (mwh) and 171,000 mwh in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 7 percent in both years. based on expected customer and overall economic growth in chile, chilquinta energ a expects its annual electric sales to increase in 2013 by approximately 210,000 mwh, representing a growth rate of 8 percent. electric resources the supply of electric power available to chilquinta energ a comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with its various suppliers and its generating facilities. this supply as of december 31, 2012 is as follows: chilquinta energ a electric resources supplier source(2) expiration date megawatts (mw) purchased-power contracts(1): endesa thermal 2020 to 2024 47 gener thermal 2023 to 2024 125 tecnored thermal 2013 4 total 176 endesa hydro 2020 to 2024 161 gener hydro 2023 to 2024 61 total 222 endesa wind 2020 to 2024 3 total contracted 401 generation: small generation plants(3) thermal 8 total contracted and generation 409 (1) contracts covering 2013 - 2024. (2) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. (3) compa a de petr leos de chile copec s.a. supplies diesel fuel to six small generation plants using trucks from different stations throughout the region. power generation system the centers for economic load dispatch (centros de despacho econ mico de carga, or cdec) are private organizations in charge of coordinating the operation of the electricity system. each interconnected system is subject to its own cdec; there is a cdec-sic (sistema interconectado central, central interconnected system) and cdec-sing (sistema interconectado del norte grande, northern interconnected system) for the central and the northern interconnected system, respectively. chilquinta energ a operates within cdec-sic. transmission system and access chile's transmission system is divided into two parts, main transmission (sistema de transmisi n troncal) and the sub-transmission (sistema de subtransmisi n). in chile, main transmission lines must be greater than or equal to 220 kv. chilquinta energ a uses transelec, a third party, for all of its main transmission. in general, sub-transmission systems operate at voltage levels greater than 23 kv and lower than or equal to 110 kv. sub-transmission systems, including those owned by chilquinta energ a, are comprised of infrastructure that is interconnected to the electricity system to supply non-regulated or regulated end-users located in the distribution service area. luz del sur customers luz del sur is an electric distribution utility serving approximately 950,000 customers in the southern zone of metropolitan lima, peru, with a main service area covering 1,160 square miles. at december 31, 2012, its customers consisted of approximately: 893,000 residential 56,000 commercial 4,000 industrial 5,000 street and highway lighting 1,000 agricultural in peru, customers are also classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on capacity demand. regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is less than 200 kw and their energy supply is considered public service. customers with capacity demand between 200 kw and 2,500 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. in 2012, luz del sur added approximately 33,000 new customers at a growth rate of 3.6 percent. luz del sur expects that its customer growth rate in 2013 will be comparable to that in 2012. luz del sur's electric energy sales increased by approximately 359,000 mwh and 351,000 mwh in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 6 percent in both years. based on expected customer and overall economic growth in peru, luz del sur expects its annual electric energy sales to increase in 2013 by approximately 467,000 mwh, representing a growth rate of 7 percent. electric resources the supply of electric power available to luz del sur comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with various suppliers, as well as purchases made on a spot basis. this supply as of december 31, 2012 is as follows: luz del sur electric resources supplier source(2) expiration date megawatts (mw) purchased-power contracts(1): bilateral contracts: celepsa hydro 2014 65 eepsa s.a. thermal 2013 25 edegel s.a.a. hydro/thermal 2013 50 chinango s.a.c. hydro 2013 23 kallpa generaci n s.a. thermal 2013 300 enersur s.a. hydro/thermal 2013 159 total 622 auction contracts: edegel s.a.a. hydro/thermal 2013 123 enersur s.a. hydro/thermal 2013 227 kallpa generaci n s.a. thermal 2013 106 chinango s.a.c. hydro 2013 18 termoselva s.r.l. thermal 2013 64 de-egenor s. en c. por a. hydro/thermal 2013 61 eepsa s.a. thermal 2013 80 h. huanchor s.a.c. hydro 2013 5 total 684 total contracted 1,306 (1) contracts covering 2013 - 2014. (2) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. power generation system the sistema el ctrico interconectado nacional (sein) is the peruvian national interconnected system. peru also has several isolated regional and smaller systems that provide electricity to specific areas. the osinergmin is an autonomous public regulatory entity that controls and enforces compliance with legal and technical regulations related to electric activities, sets tariffs and supervises the bidding processes required by distribution companies to purchase energy from generators. the committee of economic operation of the system (comit de operaci n econ mica del sistema interconectado nacional, or coes) coordinates the operation and dispatch of electricity of the sein, and manages the short-term market. the coes oversees generation, transmission and distribution companies, as well unregulated customers with a demand higher than 200 kw. transmission system and access transmission lines in peru are divided into principal and secondary systems. the principal system lines are accessible by all generators and allow the flow of energy through the national grid. the secondary system lines connect principal transmission with the network of distribution companies or connect directly to certain final customers. the transmission company receives tariff revenues and collects tolls based on a charge per unit of electricity. rates and regulation utilities we provide information concerning rates and regulation applicable to our utilities in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes 1 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power contain most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to california utility regulation. in addition to the discussion of our south american utilities above, we provide descriptions of these operating units' segments and information concerning their operations in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes 1, 3, 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. competition sempra energy's non-utility businesses are among many others in the energy industry providing similar products and services. they are engaged in highly competitive activities that require significant capital investments and highly skilled and experienced personnel. among these competitors there may be significant variation in financial, personnel and other resources compared to sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power. generation renewables sempra renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity through its development of and investments in wind and solar generation facilities. for sales of non-contracted renewable energy, sempra renewables competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, and other energy service companies. the number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. also, recently enacted regulatory initiatives designed to enhance energy consumption from renewable resources for regulated utility companies may increase competition from these types of institutions. these utilities may have a lower cost of capital than most independent renewable power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. this recovery allows them to build, buy and upgrade renewable generation projects without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. additionally, generation from sempra renewables' renewable energy assets is exposed to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, inclement weather and hours of sunlight. our renewable energy competitors include, among others: bp exelon energy iberdrola renewables midamerican energy nextera energy resources nrg energy generation natural gas for sales of non-contracted power, sempra natural gas is subject to competition from energy marketers, utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers. for a number of years, natural gas has been the fuel of choice for new power generation facilities for economic, operational and environmental reasons. while natural gas-fired facilities will continue to be an important part of the nation's generation portfolio, some regulated utilities are now constructing units powered by renewable resources, often with subsidies or under legislative mandate. these utilities may have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. this recovery may allow them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. when sempra natural gas sells power not subject to long-term contract commitments, it is exposed to market fluctuations in prices based on a number of factors, including the amount of capacity available to meet demand, the price and availability of fuel, and the presence of transmission constraints. some of our competitors, such as electric utilities and generation companies, have their own generation capacity, including natural gas, coal and nuclear generation. these companies, generally larger than our segments engaged in the natural gas business, may have a lower cost of capital and may have competitive advantages as a result of their scale and the location of their generation facilities. our natural gas generation competitors include, among others: calpine nextera energy resources dynegy nrg energy because sempra mexico sells the power that it generates at its termoel ctrica de mexicali plant into california, it is also impacted by these competitive factors. natural gas pipelines and storage facilities within its market area, sempra natural gas' and sempra mexico's pipelines businesses and sempra natural gas' storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated storage facilities and pipelines. they compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. sempra natural gas' competitors include, among others: aes corporation boardwalk pipeline partners duke energy enbridge, inc. endesa energy transfer partners enstor enterprise product partners kinder morgan nisource, inc. phillips 66 plains all-american spectra energy tallgrass energy partners, l.p. transcanada the williams companies sempra mexico's natural gas pipeline competitors include, among others: edf energy elecnor fermaca gdf suez kinder morgan mitsubishi mitsui pemex (mgi) samsung transcanada lng new supplies to meet north america's natural gas demand may be developed from a combination of the following sources: previously inaccessible or uneconomic natural gas reserves through hydraulic fracturing (natural gas recovery from shale formations) and other new exploration, drilling and production techniques; existing producing basins in the united states, canada and mexico; frontier basins in alaska, canada and offshore north america; areas currently restricted from exploration and development due to public policies, such as areas in the rocky mountains and offshore atlantic, pacific and gulf of mexico coasts; lng imported into lng terminals in operation or under development in the united states, canada and mexico; and biogas recovery from landfills and livestock operations. in addition, the demand for energy currently met by natural gas could be met by other energy forms such as coal, hydroelectric, oil, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and nuclear energy. our lng businesses will, therefore, face competition from companies that supply each of these energy sources. from time to time, our lng businesses compete with other companies that operate lng receiving terminals, purchase and sell lng and purchase and sell natural gas. as of december 31, 2012, there were 16 existing and operating lng receipt terminals in north america. worldwide, there are 94 existing and operating lng receipt terminals in 26 countries. there are also other proposed lng receipt terminals worldwide with which, if developed, our lng businesses would compete to be the most economical delivery point for lng supply of both long-term contracted and spot volumes. our current lng businesses' major domestic and international competitors include, among others, the following companies and their related lng affiliates: bg gas natural fenosa bp gazprom cheniere energy gdf suez chevron kinder morgan conocophillips petronas dominion resources qatar petroleum energy transfer partners repsol eni royal dutch shell excelerate energy statoil exxonmobil total s.a. sempra natural gas is currently progressing with plans for a development project to utilize its cameron lng terminal for the liquefaction of natural gas and export of lng. the objective is to obtain long-term contracts for liquefaction services that allow us to fully utilize our existing regasification infrastructure while minimizing our future additional capital investment. the liquefaction facility will utilize cameron lng's existing facilities, including two marine berths, three lng storage tanks, and vaporization capability of 1.5 billion cubic feet (bcf) per day. in january 2012, the doe approved cameron lng's application for a license to export lng to free trade agreement (fta) countries. the authorization to export lng to countries with which the u.s. does not have an fta is pending review by the doe. prospective liquefaction customers of cameron lng compete globally to market and sell lng to end users including gas and electric utilities located in lng importing countries around the world. by providing liquefaction services to cameron lng's customers, cameron lng would indirectly be competing with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the world lng market. these competitors are located in the middle east, southeast asia, africa, south america, australia and europe. our planned lng liquefaction business's major domestic and international competitors include, among others, the following companies and their related lng affiliates: bg kogas bp mitsubishi cheniere energy mitsui chevron petronas china national petroleum company qatar petroleum conocophillips santos dow chemical shell exxonmobil total s.a. gdf suez woodside kinder morgan environmental matters we discuss environmental issues affecting us in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. you should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions. hazardous substances in 1994, the cpuc approved the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism, allowing california's ious to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain superfund sites. this mechanism permits the california utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. in addition, the california utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates. at december 31, 2012, we had accrued estimated remaining investigation and remediation liabilities of $0.7 million at sdg&amp;e and $15.9 million at socalgas, both related to hazardous waste sites for which the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism applies, as described above. the accruals include costs for numerous locations, most of which had been manufactured-gas plants at socalgas. this estimated cost excludes remediation costs of $0.2 million associated with sdg&amp;e's former fossil-fuel power plants and other locations for which the cleanup costs are not being recovered in rates. we believe that any costs not ultimately recovered through rates, insurance or other means will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e or socalgas. we record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. in addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets. air and water quality the electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air-quality and greenhouse gas standards, such as those established by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the carb. we discuss these standards in government regulation california utility regulation above. the california utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards. in connection with the issuance of operating permits, sdg&amp;e and the other owners of songs have an agreement with the california coastal commission to mitigate environmental impacts to the marine environment attributed to the cooling-water discharge from songs. sdg&amp;e's share of the mitigation costs is estimated to be $48 million, of which $38 million had been incurred through december 31, 2012, and $10 million is accrued for the remaining costs through 2050. artificial kelp reef, fish hatchery and wetlands restoration projects are complete, but continue to be studied until the california coastal commission accepts the projects. the remaining costs are to maintain the projects through 2050. executive officers of the registrants sempra energy name age(1) position(1) debra l. reed 56 chairman of the board and chief executive officer mark a. snell 56 president javade chaudhri 60 executive vice president and general counsel joseph a. householder 57 executive vice president and chief financial officer trevor i. mihalik 46 controller and chief accounting officer g. joyce rowland 58 senior vice president human resources, diversity and inclusion (1) ages and positions are as of february 26, 2013. with the exception of mr. mihalik, each executive officer has been an officer of sempra energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years. before joining sempra energy in july 2012, mr. mihalik served as senior vice president of finance for the past two years and as vice president controller for the prior four years, in each case at iberdrola renewables holdings, inc., a diversified renewables and natural gas company. sdg&amp;e and socalgas name age(1) position(1) san diego gas &amp; electric company jessie j. knight, jr. 62 chairman and chief executive officer michael r. niggli 63 president and chief operating officer james p. avery 56 senior vice president power supply j. chris baker 53 senior vice president strategic planning and technology and chief information officer lee schavrien 58 senior vice president finance, regulatory and legislative affairs w. davis smith 63 senior vice president and general counsel robert m. schlax 57 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer southern california gas company anne s. smith 59 chairman and chief executive officer dennis v. arriola 52 president and chief operating officer j. chris baker 53 senior vice president strategic planning and technology and chief information officer erbin b. keith 52 senior vice president and general counsel lee schavrien 58 senior vice president finance, regulatory and legislative affairs robert m. schlax 57 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer (1) ages and positions are as of february 26, 2013. with the exception of mr. arriola, each executive officer of sdg&amp;e and socalgas has been an officer or employee of sempra energy or its subsidiaries for at least the last five years. mr. arriola was a senior vice president and the chief financial officer of sdg&amp;e and socalgas from september 2006 to november 2008, and held numerous management positions with sempra energy or its subsidiaries prior to that. in november 2008, mr. arriola became a senior vice president and the chief financial officer of sunpower corporation. from april 2010 to march 2012, he was the executive vice president and chief financial officer of sunpower. in august 2012, he rejoined socalgas as president and chief operating officer, and in december 2012 also joined the socalgas board of directors. other matters employees of registrants as of december 31, each company had the following number of employees: december 31, 2012 2011 sempra energy consolidated(1) 16,893 16,298 sdg&amp;e 4,996 5,008 socalgas 7,788 7,370 (1) excludes employees of variable interest entities as defined by u.s. gaap. labor relations socalgas field, technical and most clerical employees at socalgas are represented by the utility workers union of america or the international chemical workers union council (collectively union ) under a single collective bargaining agreement. the collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans was ratified on march 1, 2012, and is effective january 1, 2012 through september 30, 2015. sdg&amp;e field employees and some clerical and technical employees at sdg&amp;e are represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers. provisions of the collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages are in effect through august 31, 2014 and through august 31, 2015, for hours and working conditions. for these same employees, the agreement covering pension and savings plan benefits is in effect through october 1, 2015, and the agreement covering health and welfare benefits is in effect through december 31, 2013. luz del sur field, technical and administrative employees at luz del sur representing 37 percent of the total workforce are represented by the unified trade union of electricity workers of lima and callao, and the trade union of employees of electrolima. a collective bargaining agreement signed on december 13, 2012 covers these employees and is also extended to 125 non-represented employees. it covers wages, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect from january 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013. chilquinta energ a field, technical and administrative employees at chilquinta energ a are represented by labor union number 1 chilquinta energ a, litoral labor union and tecnored labor union number 1. the collective bargaining agreements for employees represented by these unions cover wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and are in effect through various dates in 2013. professional employees at chilquinta energ a are represented by group of university graduates of chilquinta energ a. the collective bargaining agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through august 31, 2013. sempra mexico at december 31, 2012, sempra mexico had 437 employees, of whom 413 provide operation and maintenance services to our facilities and are covered by various collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. sempra mexico's collective bargaining agreements are negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis, and the compensation terms are adjusted on an annual basis, whereas all other terms are renegotiated every two years. the collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation by each facility on an annual basis with respect to wages, and otherwise on a bi-annual basis. mobile gas field employees at mobile gas are represented by the united steelworkers union under a single collective bargaining agreement. the agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through november 30, 2013. item 1a. risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading price of our securities could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the annual report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the market prices of our securities. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have experienced a period of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy and its non-utility subsidiaries. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs if applicable. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially adversely affect our tax expense. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and changes in the way regulations, laws and tariffs are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the california utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions or approval requirements could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of lng terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, certificates, and other approvals may be modified or rescinded by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain the necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. we are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. if we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risk to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities is substantially greater than a typical business. such facilities and infrastructure include, but are not limited to: power generation plants natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage electric transmission and distribution nuclear waste storage facilities lng terminals and storage nuclear power generation facilities chartered lng tankers such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires, leaks, radioactive releases, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. in particular, sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of san diego county wildfires in 2007. we discuss these proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. in addition, certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for that contract. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. these potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies present a risk for attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid. cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and activities are a priority at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. we believe that the most significant cybersecurity risks to our businesses reside within the operations of our utilities. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces new cybersecurity risks associated with automated metering (virtually all of our sdg&amp;e customers have such metering and socalgas is beginning the process of converting its customers to such metering) and with smart grid infrastructure. deployment of these new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on the utilities' information systems and, more importantly, on the integrity of the energy grid. while addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. such an attack to our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, or one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines under new regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the california utilities may spend significant amounts of money related to a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects, as we discuss under cost of capital in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. at the california utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the california utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the california utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires superior execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval. sdg&amp;e is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the san diego county wildfires in 2007. through december 31, 2012, sdg&amp;e's costs to settle these claims and its estimated future settlement costs and defense costs are approximately $2.4 billion, exceeding its $1.1 billion of liability insurance coverage and the approximately $824 million recovered from third parties. sdg&amp;e is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. sdg&amp;e has concluded that it is probable that sdg&amp;e will be permitted to recover a substantial portion of these excess costs in rates, and at december 31, 2012, sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets include assets of $364 million in regulatory assets arising from wildfire litigation costs, of which $317 million is related to cpuc-regulated operations and $47 million is related to ferc-regulated operations, with respect to these excess costs. however, recovery of these amounts in rates will require future regulatory approval. in august 2009, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed an application with the cpuc proposing a new mechanism for the future recovery of wildfire-related expenses for claims, litigation expenses and insurance premiums that are in excess of amounts authorized by the cpuc for recovery in distribution rates. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision that denied the proposed blanket cost recovery framework for the utilities but allowed sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. for a description of this proceeding and information about 2007 wildfire litigation costs and their recovery, see notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e will continue to assess the probability of recovery of these excess wildfire costs in rates. should sdg&amp;e conclude that recovery in rates is no longer probable, sdg&amp;e will record a charge against earnings at the time such conclusion is reached. if sdg&amp;e had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to cpuc-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated as of december 31, 2012, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to $190 million. in addition, in periods following any such conclusion, sdg&amp;e's earnings will be adversely impacted by increases in the estimated costs to litigate or settle pending wildfire claims. as noted above, recovery of excess wildfire costs in rates will require future regulatory approval, and a failure to obtain all or a significant portion of the expected recovery, or a conclusion that recovery in rates is no longer probable, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. in addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process may extend over a number of years and sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows may be materially adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recovery in rates. we discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of equipment maintenance, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants; a substantial increase in oversight and new and more onerous regulations due to the nuclear disaster at japan's fukushima daiichi plant in early 2011; and the results of the cpuc's order instituting investigation (oii), as described in more detail below, into the songs outage that began in the first quarter of 2012. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. ongoing regulatory and maintenance issues at songs may have a material adverse effect on us. as discussed in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report, songs's units 2 and 3 are offline. the timing of the restart of either of these units is dependent upon approval by the nrc, which could result in substantial additional expenditures that may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, in customer rates. in november 2012, the cpuc issued an oii into the songs outage to determine whether sdg&amp;e should remove from customer rates some or all revenue requirement associated with the portion of the facility that is out of service. this oii will consolidate all songs issues from related regulatory proceedings and consider the appropriate cost recovery for songs, including among other costs, the cost of the steam generator replacement project, replacement power costs, capital expenditures, operation and maintenance costs and seismic study costs. the oii requires all costs related to songs incurred since january 1, 2012, be tracked in newly established memorandum accounts, with all revenues collected since january 1, 2012, in recovery of such costs and the return on sdg&amp;e's investment in songs subject to refund. the oii will address the extent to which such revenues, if any, will be required to be refunded to customers. any extended shut down of one or both of these units and the costs required to bring those units back online could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. in addition, any decision by the cpuc to require sdg&amp;e to refund some or all of the revenues collected in recovery of the costs described above could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. risks related to our sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generate electricity that they sell under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas purchase natural gas to fuel their power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy their contractual obligations. as part of their risk management strategy, they may hedge a substantial portion of their electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage their portfolios, which subjects us to the risk that the counterparty to such hedge may be unable to fulfill its obligations. such a failure could materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to so fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation and transmission facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits and rights of way timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. with respect to our proposed project to add lng export capability at our cameron facility, we currently anticipate building a facility consisting of three liquefaction trains with a total nameplate capacity of 13.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of lng and expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. total cost will be approximately $6 billion to $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs and subject to final design specifications. while we have signed commercial development agreements with mitsubishi corporation, mitsui &amp; co. and a subsidiary of gdf suez s.a., these agreements only bind the parties to fund certain development costs, including design, permitting and engineering costs of the proposed project and to negotiate in good faith 20-year tolling agreements with respect to 12 mtpa of lng. the development agreements do not obligate the parties to finance the actual construction of this new facility, and there can be no assurance that the parties will reach agreement on the terms of the 20-year tolling agreements. if one or more of the parties decides not to move forward with the project or does not enter into a tolling agreement, or if we are unable to arrange suitable financing, the project may be substantially delayed, reduced or terminated. if the project is terminated, we may not recover our share of any project development or other related costs expended and may be required to write off our share of any such previously capitalized costs. in addition, this project may be delayed, reduced or terminated in the event we are unable to obtain all of the necessary permits, licenses and authorizations in a timely manner. if the application to export to non-fta countries is not approved, the size of the project may be reduced, or the project may be delayed or terminated. the anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of $6 billion to $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs and subject to final design specifications. customers look at a number of factors when evaluating participation in a project, and changes in these factors, including global natural gas and lng prices, could have an impact on the project going forward. prior to our final investment decision and in the event we decide not to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. following our final investment decision and in the event we decide to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. the 10-year power sales agreement between sempra natural gas and the dwr, which comprised 6 percent of our revenues in 2011 and 8 percent of our revenues in 2010, expired on september 30, 2011. as a result, we may be unable to sell the power that sempra natural gas' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas utilize their lng terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay us capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. these segments also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at their terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. however, if our lng operations are unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to so perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements. should they fail to so perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many of our agreements are essential to the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. legal actions challenging our property rights could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties on which our lng terminal in mexico is located and our title to the property on which our termoel ctrica de mexicali power generation facility is located. in june 2012, the state civil court in mexicali ruled that our title to the property on which our termoel ctrica de mexicali power generation facility is located was invalid due to procedural errors made by our predecessor in title. however, the court also declined to award title to the claimant, and we are appealing the ruling invalidating our title. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our lng terminal is located or the property on which our power generation facility is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related facility or terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such facility and/or terminal. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related facility or terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra natural gas, sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we own or have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and lng terminal projects in mexico, and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in argentina, chile and peru. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's energ a costa azul lng terminal, termoel ctrica de mexicali power generation facility and other international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy is a partner with the royal bank of scotland plc in rbs sempra commodities llp (rbs sempra commodities), a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the investment balance of $126 million at december 31, 2012 reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in addition, amounts may be retained by the partnership for an extended period of time to help offset unanticipated future general and administrative costs necessary to complete the dissolution of the partnership. we have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by rbs sempra commodities, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the partnership could have a corresponding effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, which is operated by edison. also, sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a joint venture that operates a natural gas pipeline. our investment in rockies express is $361 million at december 31, 2012. rockies express is controlled by tallgrass energy partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. at december 31, 2012, sempra renewables has investments totaling $592 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with pemex that operates two natural gas pipelines and a propane system in northern mexico. at december 31, 2012, this investment is $340 million. we also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, totaling $97 million at december 31, 2012. we continue to make such investments. we discuss these investments further in notes 3, 4 and 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sempra natural gas is currently progressing with plans to develop its cameron lng regasification facility for liquefaction capability in a joint venture structure with three partners. we discuss these plans further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. we have limited influence over these and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 22 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the annual report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. some jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the united states or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash, which reduces the cash available to us. to the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our united states operations, we may incur significant taxes and/or penalties to repatriate these funds. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have experienced periods of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and any reduction in sempra energy's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy and its non-utility subsidiaries. if the credit ratings of sempra energy or its non-utility subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and borrowings would likely increase because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, legal, tax, economic and management oversight risk. our for eign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to fully mitigate with our actions. we have foreign operations in mexico and south america. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. our international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and to geo-political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our primary currency exposures are to the latin america currencies. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in other comprehensive income caused by exchange rate fluctuations. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially adversely affect our tax expense. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and changes in the way regulations, laws and tariffs are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the california utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of lng terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, certificates, and other approvals may be modified or rescinded by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain the necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as the utility reform network (turn), utility consumers' action network (ucan) and other stakeholder and advocacy groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting matters; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources and reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these operations that may be recovered from customers. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and greenhouse gas, or ghg, emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. our facilities are subject to regulations protecting migratory birds, which have recently been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risk to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities is substantially greater than a typical business. such facilities and infrastructure include, but are not limited to: power generation plants natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage electric transmission and distribution nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities lng terminals and storage nuclear power facilities chartered lng tankers such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires, leaks, radioactive releases, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses. on january 17, 2014, the governor of california declared a state of emergency because of severe drought conditions in the state. the drought conditions in california and the western united states increase the risk of catastrophic wildfires in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy. the drought conditions also reduce the amount of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities in the northwest united states which could adversely impact the availability of a reliable energy supply into the california electric grid managed by the california iso. if alternate supplies of electric generation are not available to replace the lower level of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities, this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's service territory. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss these proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, california juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. in addition, certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for that contract. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by our businesses or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. these potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies present a risk for attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid. cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and activities are a priority at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. we believe that the most significant cybersecurity risks to our businesses reside within the operations of our utilities. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces new cybersecurity risks associated with automated metering (virtually all of our sdg&amp;e customers have such metering and socalgas is in the process of converting its customers to such metering) and with smart grid infrastructure. deployment of these new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on the utilities' information systems and, more importantly, on the integrity of the energy grid. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. an attack to our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, or one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. our businesses will continue to have to adapt to technological change and may not be successful or may have to incur significant expenditures to adapt to technological change. we expect that new technologies will emerge that may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. if we fail to adapt successfully to any technological change or obsolescence, or fail to obtain access to important technologies or incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological change, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological change that could impact our businesses include california utilities factors that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets include efficient battery storage technology, combined with the expanded cost effective utilization of distributed generation (i.e., solar rooftop, community solar projects) sempra u.s. gas &amp; power at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' power sales customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra natural gas, technological advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources could reduce the demand for natural gas. at our lng businesses, technologies that lower global natural gas and lng consumption would have the greatest impact on the business. these technologies include cost effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic gas to liquids conversion processes and advances associated with seabed or arctic gas hydrate exploitation. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under new regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and new citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. at the california utilities, the areas that are currently eligible for incentives are operational activities designated by the cpuc, energy efficiency programs and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the california utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the california utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires competent execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, the california utilities may incur substantial incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. in august 2011, socalgas, sdg&amp;e, pg&amp;e and southwest gas filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace all natural gas transmission pipelines that have not been pressure tested. in their 2011 filing with the cpuc, the california utilities estimated the total cost for phase 1 of the two-phase plan to be $3.1 billion ($2.5 billion for socalgas and $600 million for sdg&amp;e) over a 10-year period. the california utilities requested that the incremental capital investment required as a result of any approved plan be included in rate base and that cost recovery be allowed for any other incremental cost not eligible for rate-base recovery. the costs that are the subject of these plans are outside the scope of the 2012 general rate case, or grc proceedings discussed elsewhere in this report. if the cpuc were to decide that the incremental capital investment not be considered as incremental rate base outside the grc process or that this incremental capital investment earn a return on rate base lower than what is otherwise authorized, or that cost recovery not be allowed for any other incremental cost, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects upon commencement of this program. we provide additional information in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. the california state senate passed legislation in 2013 which requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, as well as delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. this legislation requires the cpuc to implement the enforcement program for natural gas safety by july 1, 2014 and for electric safety by january 1, 2015. in exercising the citation authority, the cpuc staff will take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. the cpuc is planning to adopt an administrative limit on the maximum monetary penalty that may be set by the cpuc staff. in december 2011, the cpuc adopted a natural gas safety citation program whereby natural gas distribution companies can be fined by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety standards or federal standards. each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. in september 2013, the cpuc issued standard operating procedures setting forth its principles and management process for the gas safety citation program. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with the safety standards, the corrective actions required to be in conformance and any penalties imposed could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects upon commencement of this program. we provide additional information in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. meaningful rate reform is necessary due to the increased power supply from renewable energy sources and the growth in distributed and local power generation, and the failure by the cpuc to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure in a relevant manner could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california places an undue burden on customers with heavy electric use while subsidizing low and moderate use customers. in addition, customers who self-generate their own power (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay most transmission and distribution charges, subject to certain limitations. as more heavy use customers purchase solar panels or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, the burden on the remaining heavy use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation and increases rate pressures. in addition, the increase of solar and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. over the mid- to long-term, this rate structure is unsustainable. on january 1, 2014, ab 327 became effective. this new law restores to the cpuc the authority to establish electric rates for electric utility companies in california and removes the rate caps established in ab 1x adopted in early 2001 during california's energy crisis, as well as senate bill 695 adopted in 2009. additionally, the law provides the cpuc with the authority to adopt up to a $10.00 monthly fixed charge for all residential customers effective january 1, 2015. the cpuc will implement ab 327 through its current order instituting rulemaking proceeding regarding electric rate reform. if the cpuc fails to reform rate structures to maintain competitive and affordable electric rates and the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval. sdg&amp;e is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. through december 31, 2013, sdg&amp;e's costs to settle these claims and its estimated future settlement costs and defense costs are approximately $2.4 billion, which exceeds its $1.1 billion of liability insurance coverage and the approximately $824 million recovered from third parties. sdg&amp;e has concluded that it is probable that sdg&amp;e will be permitted to recover a substantial portion of these excess costs in rates, and at december 31, 2013, sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets include assets of $330 million in other regulatory assets, of which $315 million is related to cpuc-regulated operations and $15 million is related to ferc-regulated operations, with respect to these excess costs. however, recovery of these amounts in rates will require future regulatory approval. in august 2009, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed an application with the cpuc proposing a new mechanism for the future recovery of wildfire-related expenses for claims, litigation expenses and insurance premiums that are in excess of amounts authorized by the cpuc for recovery in distribution rates. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision that denied the proposed blanket cost recovery framework for the utilities but allowed sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. for a description of this proceeding and information about 2007 wildfire litigation costs and their recovery, see notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e will continue to assess the probability of recovery of these excess wildfire costs in rates. should sdg&amp;e conclude that recovery in rates is no longer probable, sdg&amp;e will record a charge against earnings at the time such conclusion is reached. if sdg&amp;e had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to cpuc-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated as of december 31, 2013, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to $186 million. in addition, in periods following any such conclusion, sdg&amp;e's earnings will be adversely impacted by increases in the estimated costs to litigate or settle pending wildfire claims. as noted above, recovery of excess wildfire costs in rates will require future regulatory approval, and a failure to obtain all or a significant portion of the expected recovery, or a conclusion that recovery in rates is no longer probable, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. in addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process may extend over a number of years and sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows may be materially adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recovery in rates. we discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company, or edison. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. songs' units 2 and 3 have been shut down since early 2012, and on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs' units 2 and 3 and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. although the facility will be decommissioned in the future, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility; and the results of the cpuc's order instituting investigation (oii), as described in more detail below, into the songs outage that began in the first quarter of 2012. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains two trusts for the purposes of providing funds to decommission songs. up to approximately 33 percent of the trust assets has been generally invested in equity securities, which are subject to market fluctuation. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. ongoing regulatory and maintenance issues at songs may have a material adverse effect on us. songs' units 2 and 3 have been shut down since early 2012, after a water leak occurred in the unit 3 steam generator. since the unscheduled outage started, sdg&amp;e has procured power to ensure a reliable supply of power to meet customers' needs, replacing the power that would have been available had songs been in operation. the estimated cost of the purchased replacement power incurred from january 2012 through june 6, 2013, the date edison notified sdg&amp;e of its decision to permanently close songs, was approximately $165 million. of this total, $98 million was incurred in 2012 and has been approved for collection in rates pursuant to prior energy resource recovery account (erra) proceedings. the remaining $67 million represents replacement power costs incurred through june 6, 2013 that have not yet been approved for recovery in rates. in addition to the estimated cost of the purchased replacement power, sdg&amp;e's share of songs' operating costs, including depreciation, and the return on its investment in songs from january 1, 2012 through june 30, 2013, was approximately $300 million. in november 2012, the cpuc issued an oii into the songs outage to determine whether sdg&amp;e should remove from customer rates some or all of the revenue requirement associated with the portion of the facility that was out of service. this oii will consolidate most songs issues from related regulatory proceedings and consider the appropriate cost recovery for songs during the shutdown, including among other costs, the cost of the steam generator replacement project, replacement power costs, capital expenditures, operation and maintenance costs and seismic study costs, and the appropriate rate design regarding the recovery of the remaining investment in and any return on the remaining investment in songs from the time the units were taken off-line. the oii requires that all costs related to songs incurred since january 1, 2012 be tracked in memorandum accounts, and that all revenues collected since january 1, 2012, for recovery of such costs and for the return on sdg&amp;e's investment in songs be subject to refund. the oii will address the extent to which such revenues, if any, will be required to be refunded to customers. as a result of edison's decision to permanently retire songs' units 2 and 3 and seek approval to start the decommissioning activities of the entire facility, sdg&amp;e has removed the net book value of its investment in songs and established a new regulatory asset, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america for regulated entities, representing the amount management believes is probable of recovery in future rates. as a result of this analysis, sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's financial results for the year ended december 31, 2013 include an after-tax loss of $119 million reflected in the regulatory asset to reduce the amount that management believes is probable of recovery in rates in the future to $303 million, which is included in other regulatory assets on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2013. any failure to recover some or all of this regulatory asset, the cost of purchased replacement power of $98 million approved in prior erra proceedings for collection in rates, or operating or other costs associated with songs (including approximately $184 million of operations and maintenance expenses incurred by sdg&amp;e since the start of the forced outages), or any decision by the cpuc to require refund of revenues collected in recovery of the costs above could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. should sdg&amp;e conclude that recovery in rates is different than the amount anticipated or is no longer probable, sdg&amp;e will record an additional charge against earnings at the time such a conclusion is reached, which could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we discuss songs matters in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. risks related to our sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generate electricity that they sell under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas purchase natural gas to fuel their power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy their contractual obligations. as part of their risk management strategy, they may hedge a substantial portion of their electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage their portfolios, which subjects us to the risk that the counterparty to such hedge may be unable to fulfill its obligations. such a failure could materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to so fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation and transmission facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights other factors if we are unable to complete the development of a facility or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation or natural gas regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. with respect to our proposed project to add lng export capability at our cameron facility, we currently anticipate building a facility consisting of three liquefaction trains with a total nameplate capacity of 13.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the anticipated incremental investment in the three-train liquefaction project, subject to final design specifications, is estimated to be approximately $6 billion to $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. while we have signed commercial development agreements with mitsubishi corporation, mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and a subsidiary of gdf suez s.a., these agreements only bind the parties to fund certain development costs, including design, permitting and engineering costs of the proposed project and to negotiate in good faith 20-year tolling agreements with respect to 12 mtpa of lng, which tolling agreements were executed in may 2013. however, the development agreements do not obligate the parties to finance the actual construction of this new facility. the joint venture agreement and the three tolling agreements are subject to a final investment decision to proceed by each party, finalization of permit authorizations and securing financing commitments, as well as other customary conditions. if one or more of the parties decides not to move forward with the project, or if we are unable to arrange suitable financing, the project may be substantially delayed, reduced or terminated. if the project is terminated, we may not recover our share of any project development or other related costs expended, and we may be required to write off our share of any such previously capitalized costs. in addition, this project may be delayed, reduced or terminated in the event we are unable to obtain all of the necessary permits, licenses and authorizations in a timely manner. the anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect and is subject to final design specifications, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of $6 billion to $7 billion of incremental investment, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. customers look at a number of factors when evaluating participation in a project, and changes in these factors, including global natural gas and lng prices, could have an impact on the project going forward. prior to our final investment decision and in the event we decide not to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. following our final investment decision and in the event we decide to proceed with the project, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra natural gas' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas utilize their lng terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay us capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. these segments also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at their terminals for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. also, although our cameron lng terminal is not fully contracted for regasification, given our current progress on the liquefaction project discussed above, we do not expect to contract or sell any additional lng import capacity at the cameron terminal. our potential lng suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of lng. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a partnership that operates a natural gas pipeline, the rockies express pipeline (rex). sempra natural gas and the partnership have agreements for capacity on rex that expire at various dates through 2019. as these agreements expire, new contracting activity related to that capacity may not be sufficient to replace the revenues from the expiring agreements. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to so perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements. should they fail to so perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many of our agreements are essential to the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. legal actions challenging our property rights could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties on and adjacent to our lng terminal in mexico, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra natural gas, sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we own or have interests in mexico in electricity generation, distribution and transmission facilities, natural gas, propane and ethane distribution, storage and transportation projects, and an lng terminal, and electricity transmission and distribution businesses in chile and peru. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's energ a costa azul lng terminal and other international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, which is operated by edison. also, sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express, a joint venture that operates a natural gas pipeline. our investment in rockies express is $329 million at december 31, 2013. rockies express is controlled by tallgrass energy partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. at december 31, 2013, sempra renewables has investments totaling $707 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with pemex that operates several natural gas pipelines and propane systems in northern mexico. at december 31, 2013, this investment is $379 million. sempra energy has an investment balance of $73 million at december 31, 2013 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities llp (rbs sempra commodities) partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the partnership could have a corresponding effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to make investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. we discuss these investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sempra natural gas is currently progressing with plans to develop its cameron lng regasification facility for liquefaction capability in a joint venture structure with three partners where we will have 50.2 percent of the joint venture. we discuss these plans further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. we have limited influence over these and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change to any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 23 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the annual report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. some jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the united states or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash, which reduces the cash available to us. in addition, we may be required to pay u.s. income taxes on earnings that are not repatriated if legislation being discussed on this matter is passed. to the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our united states operations, we may incur significant u.s. and foreign taxes and/or penalties to repatriate these funds. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. the credit markets and financial services industry have in the past experienced periods of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and regulation. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and any reduction in sempra energy's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy and its non-california regulated utility subsidiaries. if the credit ratings of sempra energy or any of its subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, legal, tax, economic and management oversight risk. we have foreign operations in mexico and south america. our for eign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to fully mitigate with our actions. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. our international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and to geo-political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our primary currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in other comprehensive income caused by exchange rate fluctuations. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and changes in the way regulations, laws and tariffs are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy operations. these rules are commonly referred to as the affiliate transaction rules. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the california utilities and with each other. affiliate transaction rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of lng terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain the necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and greenhouse gas, or ghg, emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. in addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. our facilities are subject to regulations protecting migratory birds, which have recently been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and fires, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure we own that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: power generation plants natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compression facilities electric transmission and distribution nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities lng terminals and storage nuclear power facilities chartered lng tankers such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires, leaks, radioactive releases, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses. on january 17, 2014, the governor of california declared a state of emergency because of severe drought conditions in the state. the drought conditions in california and the western united states increase the risk of catastrophic wildfires in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy. the drought conditions also reduce the amount of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities in the northwest united states, which could adversely impact the availability of a reliable energy supply into the california electric grid managed by the california iso. if alternate supplies of electric generation are not available to replace the lower level of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities, this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's service territory. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss these proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. in addition, certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for that contract. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by our businesses or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. these potential labor disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies present a risk for attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline infrastructure and storage. cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and other activities and our customer and employee information are a priority at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. an attack on our information systems, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, the integrity of the energy grid or the natural gas infrastructure, or one of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. finally, as seen with recent cyber-attacks on u.s. corporations, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming, that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents. our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful. we expect that emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive or result in the obsolescence of certain operating assets. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. if we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, or fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological changes that could impact our businesses include california utilities technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets including efficient battery storage technology, combined with the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects). sempra u.s. gas &amp; power at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' power sales customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra natural gas, technological advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources could reduce the demand for natural gas. at our lng businesses, technologies that lower global natural gas and lng consumption would have the greatest impact on the business. these technologies include cost effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances associated with seabed or arctic gas hydrate exploitation. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under new regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and new citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. if actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential over authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, and reductions in authorized base margins are tied to not achieving specific performance and operating goals. at both of the california utilities, the areas that are currently eligible for performance mechanisms are operational activities designated by the cpuc and energy efficiency programs; at sdg&amp;e, electric reliability performance; and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the california utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the california utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires competent execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as the utility reform network (turn), utility consumers' action network (ucan) and other stakeholder and advocacy groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting matters; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources, and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these operations that may be recovered from customers. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, the california utilities may incur substantial incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments, including under sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' pipeline safety enhancement plan (psep) currently estimated to be $2.1 billion ($1.6 billion for socalgas and $500 million for sdg&amp;e) over 10 years for the first phase of this project. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision in the triennial cost allocation proceeding (tcap) addressing sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' psep that approved the utilities' model for implementing psep, and established the criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in july 2014, the cpuc office of ratepayer advocates (ora) and turn filed a joint application for rehearing of the cpuc's june 2014 final decision. if the cpuc were to decide as part of any future reasonableness review that rate recovery not be allowed for certain gas pipeline safety costs incurred by sdg&amp;e and socalgas, or if the cpuc were to decide in favor of the ora/turn joint application for rehearing, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. we provide additional information in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. the california state senate passed legislation in 2013 (sb 291) which requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, as well as delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. this legislation requires the cpuc to implement the enforcement program for natural gas safety by july 1, 2014 and for electric safety by january 1, 2015. in exercising the citation authority, the cpuc staff will take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. the cpuc is planning to adopt an administrative limit on the maximum monetary penalty that may be set by the cpuc staff. in may 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop the necessary enforcement programs pursuant to the requirements of sb 291, with the cpuc issuing a decision on the electric safety enforcement program in the fourth quarter of 2014. we expect a cpuc decision making future refinements to the electric and gas safety programs in 2015. in december 2011, the cpuc adopted a natural gas safety citation program whereby natural gas distribution companies can be fined by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety standards or federal standards. each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. in september 2013, the cpuc issued standard operating procedures setting forth its principles and management process for the gas safety citation program. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with the safety standards, the corrective actions required to be in conformance and any penalties imposed could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. meaningful rate reform is necessary because the current multi-tiered electric rate design in california results in a disproportionately high amount of sdg&amp;e's fixed cost of operating and maintaining its electric infrastructure being borne by higher use consumers in the residential customer class, which results in excessively high electric rates that indirectly subsidize lower use consumers in the residential customer class. the failure by the cpuc to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure in a relevant manner could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. in addition, due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own power (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive power from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. as more higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation and increases rate pressures. in addition, the increase of solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. over the mid- to long-term, this rate structure is unsustainable. on january 1, 2014, ab 327 became effective. this law restores to the cpuc the authority to establish electric rates for electric utility companies in california and removes the rate caps established in ab 1x adopted in early 2001 during california's energy crisis, as well as senate bill 695 adopted in 2009. additionally, the law provides the cpuc with the authority to adopt up to a $10.00 monthly fixed charge for all residential customers effective january 1, 2015. in february 2014, sdg&amp;e filed comprehensive proposals with the cpuc that provide a roadmap to reforming electric residential rate base design beginning in 2015 and continuing through 2018, consistent with the provisions of ab 327. the cpuc will implement ab 327 through its current order instituting rulemaking proceeding regarding electric rate reform. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing net energy metering (nem) program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327, which require the cpuc to establish a revised nem tariff or similar program by december 31, 2015. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. it was originally established in california in 1995 with the adoption of senate bill 656, as codified in section 2827 of the public utilities code. currently, customers who install and operate eligible renewable generation facilities of 1 megawatt or less may choose to participate in the nem program. under nem, customer-generators receive a full retail-rate bill credit for the power they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid and during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage. meaningful rate reform is necessary to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to nem customers due to, among other issues, the increased power supply from renewable energy sources and the growth in distributed and local power generation. if the cpuc fails to reform rate structures to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval. sdg&amp;e is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. through december 31, 2014, sdg&amp;e's costs to settle these claims and its estimated future settlement costs and defense costs have exceeded its liability insurance coverage and the amounts recovered from third-parties. sdg&amp;e has concluded that it is probable that sdg&amp;e will be permitted to recover a substantial portion of these excess costs in rates, and at december 31, 2014, sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets include assets of $373 million in other regulatory assets, of which $366 million is related to cpuc-regulated operations and $7 million is related to ferc-regulated operations, with respect to these excess costs. however, recovery of these amounts in rates will require future regulatory approval. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision allowing sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. for a description of this proceeding and information about 2007 wildfire litigation costs and their recovery, see notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e will continue to assess the probability of recovery of these excess wildfire costs in rates. should sdg&amp;e conclude that recovery in rates is no longer probable, sdg&amp;e will record a charge against earnings at the time such conclusion is reached. if sdg&amp;e had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to cpuc-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated as of december 31, 2014, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to $217 million. as noted above, recovery of excess wildfire costs in rates will require future regulatory approval, and a failure to obtain all or a significant portion of the expected recovery, or a conclusion that recovery in rates is no longer probable, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. in addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process may extend over a number of years. we discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, operated by southern california edison company, or edison. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs' units 2 and 3 and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. although the facility will be decommissioned in the future, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains two trusts for the purposes of providing funds to decommission songs. up to approximately 32 percent of the trust assets has been generally invested in equity securities, which are subject to market fluctuation. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. sdg&amp;e may not receive these approvals during periods where cash is required to be expended for decommissioning, and approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. recovery for those overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for lng terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, lng or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generate electricity that they sell under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas purchase natural gas to fuel their power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy their contractual obligations. as part of their risk management strategy, they may hedge a substantial portion of their electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage their portfolios, which subjects us to the risk that the counterparty to such hedge may be unable to fulfill its obligations. such a failure could materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition and/or results of operations. sempra natural gas' generation asset, the remaining 625-mw block of the mesquite power plant, is currently held for sale and we expect to complete a pending sale in the first half of 2015, subject to obtaining third party consents for the assignment of an associated 25-year power sales contract to the buyer. we discuss the pending sale in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to so fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation and transmission facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation or natural gas regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage and transmission systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, the newly formed joint venture, cameron lng holdings, llc (cameron lng holdings), has begun building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains with a total nameplate capacity of 13.5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the anticipated incremental investment in the three-train liquefaction project is estimated to be approximately $7 billion, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. while our joint venture partners made a final investment decision to proceed, our joint venture became effective and financing was procured for the project, there are still a number of risks to completing this project. cameron lng holdings has a turnkey engineering, procurement and construction (epc) contract with a joint venture contractor comprised of subsidiaries of chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v. and chiyoda corporation, who are jointly and severally liable for performance under the contract. if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, cameron lng holdings would be required to engage a substitute contractor, which would result in project delays and in increased costs. the construction of this facility requires a large and specialized work force, necessary equipment and materials, and sophisticated engineering. there can be no assurance that cameron lng holdings' contractor will not encounter delays due to disruptions in obtaining the necessary equipment and materials, inability to field the necessary workforce, or engineering issues that were not contemplated. as construction progresses, cameron lng holdings may decide or be forced to submit change orders to the contractor that could result in longer construction periods and higher construction costs or both. in addition, weather conditions, new regulation, labor disputes, breakdown or failure of equipment, and litigation, such as the lawsuit filed by the sierra club and gulf restoration network challenging the june 19, 2014 ferc order that approved the construction of the cameron lng liquefaction project, could substantially delay the project. as we do not control cameron lng holdings, we are dependent on reaching a consensus with one or more of our joint venture partners to resolve a variety of issues that could transpire. the inability to timely resolve issues, including construction issues, could cause substantial delays to the completion of this project. a substantial delay could result in cost overruns, substantially postpone the earnings we anticipate deriving from this facility, and require additional cash investments by us and our joint venture partners. the anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of approximately $7 billion of incremental investment, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, a brownfield project at our existing energ a costa azul regasification facility in baja california, mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the cameron facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all of these projects is the risk that an extended decline in current and forward projections of crude oil prices could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of coal in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. oil prices at certain moderate levels, could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the united states (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). in addition, all of our proposed projects require the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals, finding suitable partners and customers, obtaining financing, and negotiating suitable construction contracts. expansion of the cameron lng facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects contemplated by various developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the cost advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the energ a costa azul facility in mexico is subject to on-going land and permitting disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. finally, energ a costa azul has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would be more profitable than just continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. increased competition could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the federal electricity commission (comisi n federal de electricidad, or cfe) and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects contemplated by various developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. finally, our natural gas storage assets in the gulf coast region compete with other facilities for storage customers as existing contracts expire and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the energ a costa azul lng facility and the cameron lng facility (within the newly formed cameron lng holdings joint venture) have entered into long-term capacity agreements. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. at cameron lng holdings, although the cameron lng terminal is partially contracted for regasification, there is a termination agreement in place that will result in the termination of this agreement at the point in the construction of the new liquefaction facilities where piping tie-ins to the existing regasification terminal become necessary, which we expect to occur during the first quarter of 2017. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a partnership that operates a natural gas pipeline, the rockies express pipeline (rex). rockies express has agreements for west-to-east capacity on rex that expire in 2019 and new contracting activity related to that capacity may not be sufficient to replace the revenues from the expiring agreements. sempra natural gas also has an agreement for such capacity that expires in 2019. the capacity costs are offset by revenues from releases of the capacity to third-parties. contracting activity related to that capacity has not been sufficient to offset all of our capacity payments to rockies express. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas storage company, ltd. (bay gas) and mississippi hub, llc (mississippi hub) facilities, replacement sales contract rates could be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. in addition, our la storage, llc (la storage) development project may be unable to either attract cash flow commitments sufficient to support further investment or extend its ferc construction permit beyond its expiration date of june 2015. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is uncontracted. market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their recorded value. to the extent the book value is in excess of the fair value, we would record an impairment charge. the book value of our equity in natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2014 was $1.3 billion, excluding intercompany loans to the projects totaling approximately $250 million. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. a noncash impairment charge would reduce our book basis in the associated assets. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra natural gas' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes 4, 10 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to so perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to so perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. legal actions challenging our property rights could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties on and adjacent to our lng terminal in mexico, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the lng terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra natural gas, sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. in mexico, we own or have interests in electricity generation, distribution and transmission facilities, natural gas, propane and ethane distribution, storage and transportation projects, and an lng terminal. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electricity transmission and distribution facilities and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's energ a costa azul lng terminal and other international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, which is operated by edison. also, sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express, a joint venture that operates a natural gas pipeline. our investment in rockies express is $340 million at december 31, 2014. at december 31, 2014, sempra renewables has investments totaling $911 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with pemex that operates several natural gas pipelines and propane systems in northern mexico. sempra mexico also has a 50-percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california. at december 31, 2014, these investments total $434 million. sempra energy has an investment balance of $71 million at december 31, 2014 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities llp (rbs sempra commodities) partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the partnership could have a corresponding effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to make investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. on october 1, 2014, sempra natural gas and its joint venture project partners completed the formation of the cameron lng joint venture, cameron lng holdings, for their investment in the development, construction and operation of the three-train natural gas liquefaction export facility. our equity interest in cameron lng holdings was derived from our contribution of cameron lng to the joint venture at its historical carrying value. beginning october 1, 2014, cameron lng is no longer wholly owned by sempra natural gas, and sempra natural gas accounts for its investment in cameron lng holdings under the equity method. at december 31, 2014, sempra natural gas' investment in the joint venture is $1 billion. sempra renewables and sempra natural gas have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in notes 4, 5 and 15 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change to any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 24 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the annual report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will, as the case may be, have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities or those of our subsidiaries. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, preferred stock dividends (if any), and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. some jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the united states or impose taxes on such transfers of cash, which reduces the cash available to us. in addition, we may be required to pay u.s. income taxes on earnings that are not repatriated if legislation being discussed on this matter is passed. to the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our united states operations, we may incur significant u.s. and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if the credit ratings of socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and any reduction in sempra energy's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy and its regulated utility subsidiaries located outside of california. if the credit ratings of sempra energy or any of its subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk. we have foreign operations in mexico and south america. our for eign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to fully mitigate with our actions. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all of our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties, and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our primary currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in other comprehensive income caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under results of operations changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes foreign currency exchange rate and inflation impact on income taxes and related economic hedging activity and factors influencing future performance market risk foreign currency rate risk in the annual report. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries severe weather conditions, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, major equipment failures or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and fires, catastrophic accidents, major equipment failures or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own and in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compression facilities lng terminals and storage chartered lng tankers nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities electric transmission and distribution nuclear power facilities power generation plants such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas odorant; propane or ethane leaks; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses, including our international operations. on january 17, 2014, the governor of california declared a state of emergency because of severe drought conditions in the state. the drought conditions in california and the western united states increase the risk of catastrophic wildfires in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy. the drought conditions also reduce the amount of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities in the northwest united states, which could adversely impact the availability of a reliable energy supply into the california electric grid managed by the california iso. if alternate supplies of electric generation are not available to replace the lower level of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities, this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's service territory. another example of weather impacting operations is a strong el ni o weather pattern in the pacific ocean, which has caused severe rainstorms in southern california during the winter in late 2015 and early 2016, and could continue beyond that timeframe. significant rainstorms and associated high winds, such as those caused by a strong el ni o weather pattern, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs, and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities or our utilities in mexico, south america, alabama and mississippi encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of lng terminals; natural gas pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and propane and ethane systems require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements for the city of los angeles and los angeles county, where the aliso canyon facility is located, are due to expire in 2016 and 2017, respectively. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and greenhouse gas, or ghg, emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our lng terminals, natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities and other energy projects and properties, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our joint ventures, are subject to laws and regulations protecting migratory birds, which have recently been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. the scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, our california and other regulated utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in notes 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. in addition, possible changes in federal regulation of over-the-counter derivatives regulated by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission could impact the cost and effectiveness of our hedging programs, as we discuss in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance other sempra energy matters in the annual report. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by our businesses or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and other activities, including our customer and employee information, are a priority at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. finally, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming, that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents. our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful. we expect that emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets or the operating assets of our equity method investments. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability and our investment partners' abilities to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. if we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, or fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological changes that could negatively impact our businesses include california utilities technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets including energy storage technology, and the expanded cost effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects). sempra u.s. gas &amp; power at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' power sales customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra natural gas, technological advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources could reduce the demand for natural gas. at our lng businesses, technologies that lower global natural gas and lng consumption would have the greatest impact on that business. these technologies include cost effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances associated with seabed or arctic gas hydrate exploitation. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or authorizations for less than full recovery may adversely affect the working capital and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential over authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, and reductions in authorized base margins are tied to not achieving specific performance and operating goals. at both of the california utilities, the areas that are currently eligible for performance mechanisms are operational activities designated by the cpuc and energy efficiency programs; at sdg&amp;e, electric reliability performance; and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the california utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the california utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as the utility reform network (turn), utility consumers' action network (ucan), sierra club and other stakeholder and advocacy groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting matters; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these operations that may be recovered from customers. socalgas will incur significant costs and expenses to remediate the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and to mitigate local community and environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for fines, penalties, damages and greenhouse gas mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection and withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county. the aliso canyon facility, which has been operated by socalgas since 1972, is situated in the santa susana mountains. ss25 is more than one mile away from and 1,200 feet above the closest homes. it is one of more than 100 injection and withdrawal wells at the storage facility. stopping the leak and mitigation efforts socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, including planning and obtaining all necessary approvals for drilling relief wells. after discovering the leak, socalgas made seven unsuccessful attempts to plug ss25 by pumping fluids down the well shaft. in early december 2015, socalgas began drilling a relief well designed to stop the leak by plugging the well at its base. on february 11, 2016, socalgas began pumping heavy fluids through the relief well into ss25 near the base of the well, which controlled the flow of natural gas through the well and stopped the leak. in order to permanently seal the well and consistent with directives from the doggr and cpuc, socalgas then injected cement into ss25 at its base and on february 18, 2016, the doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. pursuant to a stipulation and order and in response to claims made pursuant to lawsuits described below, socalgas has been providing temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who request it. in addition, socalgas has been providing air filtration and purification systems to those residents in the nearby community requesting them. as a result of receiving the confirmation from doggr that the ss25 well was permanently sealed, socalgas started winding down its temporary relocation support. subject to certain exceptions, the period for temporary relocation support to residents who temporarily relocated to short-term housing, such as hotels, concluded on february 25, 2016. this deadline has been challenged and is subject to a recent court order extending such period for an additional 22 days for certain residents. socalgas has appealed this order extending the support period. additionally, residents who have been placed in rental housing will have through the agreed term of their leases to return home. in addition, socalgas also intends to mitigate the ghg emissions from the actual natural gas released. the total costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate environmental and local community impacts will be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance, or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation various governmental agencies, including the doggr, los angeles county department of public health, scaqmd, carb, cpuc, epa, los angeles district attorney's office, and california attorney general's office, are investigating this incident. socalgas has been working in close cooperation with these agencies. as of february 24, 2016, 83 lawsuits have been filed against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy, and, in derivative claims on behalf of sempra energy and socalgas, certain officers and directors of sempra energy and socalgas. these various lawsuits assert causes of action for negligence, strict liability, property damage, fraud, nuisance, trespass, and breach of fiduciary duties, among other things, and additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to this incident. many of these complaints seek class action status, compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys' fees. the los angeles city attorney and los angeles county counsel have also filed a complaint on behalf of the people of the state of california against socalgas for public nuisance and violation of the california unfair competition law. the california attorney general, acting in her independent capacity and on behalf of the people of the state of california and the carb, joined this lawsuit. the complaint, as amended to include the california attorney general, adds allegations of violations of california health and safety code sections 41700, prohibiting discharge of air contaminants that cause annoyance to the public, and 25510, requiring reporting of the release of hazardous material, as well as california government code section 12607 for equitable relief for the protection of natural resources. the complaint seeks an order for injunctive relief, to abate the public nuisance, and to impose civil penalties. the scaqmd also filed a complaint against socalgas seeking civil penalties for alleged violations of several nuisance-related statutory provisions arising from the leak and delays in stopping the leak. that suit seeks up to $250,000 in civil penalties for each day the violations occurred. on february 2, 2016, the los angeles district attorney's office filed a misdemeanor criminal complaint against socalgas seeking penalties for alleged failure to provide timely notice of the leak pursuant to california health and safety code section 25510(a), los angeles county code section 12.56.030, and title 19 california code of regulations section 2703(a), and for violating california health and safety code section 41700 prohibiting discharge of air contaminants that cause annoyance to the public. the costs of defending against these civil and criminal lawsuits and cooperating with these investigations, and any damages and civil and criminal fines and other penalties, if awarded or imposed, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance, or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental orders, additional regulation and reliability on january 6, 2016, the governor of the state of california issued an order (the governor's order) proclaiming a state of emergency to exist in los angeles county due to the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon facility. the governor's order implements various orders with respect to: stopping the leak; protecting public health and safety; ensuring accountability; and strengthening oversight. we provide further detail regarding the governor's order in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. on january 23, 2016, the hearing board of the scaqmd ordered socalgas to, among other things, stop the leak, control the release of natural gas into the air, and conduct air monitoring and public health studies. we provide further detail regarding the scaqmd's order in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. on january 25, 2016, the doggr and cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct an independent analysis under their supervision and to be funded by socalgas to investigate the technical root cause of the aliso canyon leak. in addition, effective february 5, 2016, the doggr amended the california code of regulations to require all underground natural gas storage facility operators, including socalgas, to take further steps to help ensure the safety of their gas storage operations. additional hearings in the state legislature as well as with various other regulatory agencies have been or are expected to be scheduled, additional legislation has been proposed in the state legislature, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. the costs to comply with the various laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident could be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance or in customer rates, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for ensuring service reliability during peak demand periods, including heating needs in the winter, as well as peak electric generation needs in the summer. aliso canyon, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf, is the largest storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system, serving millions of homes and businesses across southern california. aliso canyon represents 63 percent of socalgas' owned natural gas storage capacity. socalgas has not injected natural gas into aliso canyon since october 25, 2015, and in accordance with the governor's order and subject to contrary cpuc reliability-based direction, socalgas will continue this moratorium on further injections until the completion of a review, utilizing independent experts, of the safety of each of the storage wells and air quality in the surrounding communities and an evaluation by an independent panel of scientific and medical experts on whether additional measures are needed to protect public health. we are also currently reviewing the recently released doggr safety review requirements associated with returning aliso canyon to an active injection/withdrawal status. if this facility were to be taken out of service for any meaningful period of time, it could result in an impairment of the aliso canyon facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2015, the aliso canyon facility has a net book value of $243 million, excluding $162 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compression station. any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. insurance we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that provide in excess of $1 billion in insurance coverage. we have been communicating with our insurance carriers and intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful, it could result in a material charge against earnings. we discuss this matter further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in capital resources and liquidity and factors influencing future performance in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur substantial incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed a comprehensive plan with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's pipeline safety enhancement plan (psep). the california utilities' total estimated cost for phase i (the 10-year period from 2012 to 2022) of the two-phase psep was $2.1 billion ($1.6 billion for socalgas and $500 million for sdg&amp;e). these cost estimates may continue to change over time to reflect the development of more detailed estimates, actual costs experienced as portions of the work are completed, and changes in scope. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' model for implementing psep, and established the criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in october 2014, the california utilities filed a petition for modification with the cpuc requesting authority to recover psep costs from customers, subject to refund pending the results of a reasonableness review by the cpuc. the request is pending at the cpuc. the california utilities filed an application to recover a portion of psep costs that they incurred prior to the cpuc's june 2014 decision. certain consumer advocacy groups recommended that the cpuc disallow a portion of these costs, and a cpuc decision in the proceeding remains pending. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly recommend disallowances with respect to applications to recover psep costs. in december 2015, in response to a request by intervenors for rehearing of the june 2014 psep decision, the cpuc adopted a decision finding shareholders responsible for the costs associated with pressure testing or replacing transmission pipelines installed between january 1, 1956 and july 1, 1961 for which the california utilities do not have a record of a pressure test. the cpuc previously determined that because no pressure testing requirements existed prior to 1961, socalgas and sdg&amp;e could recover the reasonable cost of pressure testing pipelines installed during that timeframe. socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed an application for rehearing of the december 2015 psep decision in january 2016. the december 2015 decision also transfers consideration of socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's pending petition for modification of the june 2014 psep decision, and any other interim rate recovery issues, to a pending psep phase 2 application proceeding. in the phase 2 psep proceeding, socalgas and sdg&amp;e seek authority to proceed with initial planning and engineering work in order to develop detailed cost estimates for phase 2 of psep. if the cpuc were to decide as part of any future reasonableness review or rehearing application that rate recovery not be allowed for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. we provide additional information in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. in december 2011, the cpuc adopted a natural gas safety citation program whereby natural gas distribution companies can be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety standards. in september 2013, the cpuc's safety and enforcement division issued standard operating procedures setting forth its principles and management process for the natural gas safety citation program. in 2013, the california state senate passed legislation senate bill (sb) 291 requiring the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, as well as delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. this legislation required the cpuc to implement the enforcement program for natural gas safety by july 1, 2014 and for electric safety by january 1, 2015. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. in december 2014, the cpuc adopted an electric safety enforcement program whereby electric utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under the cpuc's gas and electric enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. citations under either program may be appealed to the cpuc. penalties imposed under these programs can be significant, exceeding $1.5 billion in one instance. the cpuc is currently considering proposed refinements to the electric and gas safety enforcement programs, and a decision on these proposals remains pending. as a result of the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon facility, the scaqmd filed a complaint against socalgas seeking civil penalties for alleged violations of several nuisance-related statutory provisions arising from the leak and delays in stopping the leak. the suit seeks up to $250,000 in civil penalties for each day the violations occurred. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective actions required to be in conformance and any penalties imposed could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. meaningful net energy metering, or nem, reform is necessary to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to nem customers while minimizing the cost shift (or subsidy) being borne by non-solar customers. due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own power using eligible renewable resources (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive power from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the proportionate costs not paid by nem customers are paid (i.e., subsidized) by consumers not participating in nem. in addition, the continuing increase of self-generated solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327, which required the cpuc to establish a revised nem tariff or similar program by december 31, 2015. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. it was originally established in california in 1995 with the adoption of sb 656, as codified in section 2827 of the public utilities code. currently, customers who install and operate eligible renewable generation facilities of one megawatt or less may choose to participate in the nem program. under nem, customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, they receive compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. in august 2015, sdg&amp;e proposed a successor nem tariff that is intended to ensure that all nem customers pay for the grid and other services they receive, supports the continued growth and adoption of distributed energy resources and helps california meet its energy policy goals. in january 2016, sdg&amp;e, pg&amp;e and edison filed a joint recommendation to continue the pursuit of a fair and equitable rate structure for all customers. subsequently in january 2016, the cpuc adopted a final decision in the case that makes modest changes now to require nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to time-of-use rates. together with tiered rate compression discussed under rate reform, the nem successor tariff begins a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers. the decision also targets the inclusion of fixed charges for nem customers beginning in 2019, which is expected to expand the proportion of costs shared by nem customers. appropriate nem reform is necessary to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations were to increase substantially between 2016 and 2019 when more significant reforms are to take effect, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of a more significant fixed charge, could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. as higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, such as wind, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a proposed decision that establishes comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the adopted decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded time of use rates, and implements a super-user electric surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent within each climate zone. the surcharge will increase over time, ultimately reaching a rate of more than double the first tier rate. the adopted decision will be implemented over a five year period from 2015 to 2020, and should result in significant relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the adopted decision also establishes a process for implementing a fixed charge in 2020, after the initial reforms are implemented. the establishment of a fixed charge may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers as distributed energy resources could generally reduce delivered volumes and increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure by implementing a rate structure that maintains reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval. sdg&amp;e is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. through december 31, 2015, sdg&amp;e's payments for claims settlements plus funds estimated to be required for settlement of outstanding claims and legal fees have exceeded its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. however, sdg&amp;e has concluded that it is probable that it will be permitted to recover in rates a substantial portion of the reasonably incurred costs of resolving wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. at december 31, 2015, sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets included assets of $362 million in other regulatory assets (long-term), of which $359 million is related to cpuc-regulated operations and $3 million is related to ferc-regulated operations, for costs incurred and the estimated resolution of pending claims. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision allowing sdg&amp;e to maintain an authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. in september 2015, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting rate recovery of an estimated $379 million of such costs. sdg&amp;e requested a cpuc decision by the end of 2016 and is proposing to recover the costs in rates over a six- to ten-year period. intervening parties have recommended a phased approach, with phase 1 addressing the reasonableness of sdg&amp;e's actions leading up to the fires and a cpuc decision in the second half of 2017. phase 2 would address the reasonableness of settlements entered into by sdg&amp;e, with a cpuc decision in the second half of 2018. several parties have protested the application on the basis that sdg&amp;e should be denied cost recovery. recovery of these costs in rates will require regulatory approvals. if sdg&amp;e had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to cpuc-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated, at december 31, 2015, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to approximately $213 million. a failure to obtain substantial or full recovery of these costs from customers, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. in addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process will extend over a number of years. we discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains nuclear decommissioning trusts for the purpose of providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approvals may lag cash expenditures, and approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. recovery for those overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations may further delay access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel storage costs. depending on how the internal revenue service (irs) or the department of treasury ultimately interpret irs regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for independent spent fuel storage installations (isfsi) where edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of the isfsi costs in litigation against the doe. until the doe litigation is resolved, sdg&amp;e expects to pay for such isfsi costs unless and until the irs or the department of treasury issue guidance directed to either edison or sdg&amp;e or to all taxpayers that provides that such isfsi costs can be funded by qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts. if edison and sdg&amp;e are unable to obtain timely reimbursement of such costs, such failure could delay decommissioning activities and negatively impact sdg&amp;e's cash flows. in november 2014, the cpuc approved the amended settlement agreement that resolved the investigation into the steam-generator replacement project that ultimately led to the shut-down of songs. petitions have been filed to reopen the settlement, as we discuss in note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. a proposal has been made regarding certain intra-rate case income tax benefits that, if adopted by the cpuc, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations, and/or prospects. as we discuss in note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report, in september 2015, the california utilities filed settlement agreements with the cpuc that resolve all material matters related to the 2016 general rate case proceeding, except for the revenue requirement implications of certain income tax benefits associated with flow-through repair allowance tax deductions. the settlement agreements exclude a proposal for both sdg&amp;e and socalgas regarding certain intra-rate case income tax benefits. the proposal recommends that the cpuc adjust socalgas' rate base by $92 million and sdg&amp;e's rate base by $93 million, and additionally reduce both utilities' revenue requirements by amounts currently being tracked in income tax memorandum accounts for the year 2015. we believe the proposed treatment would violate and contradict long standing rate making and income tax policy, and would represent a material departure from historical practice. at december 31, 2015, the pretax balances tracked in these memorandum accounts total $74 million for socalgas and $39 million for sdg&amp;e. if this proposal is adopted, the outcome would reduce the revenue requirement amounts agreed to in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' settlement agreements. sdg&amp;e and socalgas do not expect that the prospective reduction to rate base described above would result in an immediate earnings impact if this proposal is adopted. however, if this proposal is adopted, the amounts currently being tracked in the tax memorandum accounts for 2015 could result in a material charge against earnings when the draft decision is received. risks related to our sempra international and sempra u.s. gas &amp; power businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra natural gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction (epc) agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or natural gas regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, the cameron lng holdings, llc joint venture (cameron lng jv) has begun building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the anticipated incremental investment in the three-train liquefaction project is estimated to be approximately $7 billion, including the cost of the lump-sum, turnkey construction contract, development engineering costs and permitting costs, but excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. the total cost of the facility, including the cost of our original regasification facility contributed to the joint venture plus interest during construction, financing costs and required reserves, is estimated to be approximately $10 billion. the majority of the incremental investment in the joint venture will be project-financed and the balance provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has entered into completion guarantees under which it has guaranteed a maximum $3.7 billion of principal amount of the project financing for the project. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv's achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. if, due to the joint venture's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.7 billion principal amount of project debt under our completion guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering problems, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract with a joint venture contractor comprised of subsidiaries of chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v. and chiyoda corporation, who are jointly and severally liable for performance under the contract. if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, cameron lng jv would be required to engage a substitute contractor, which would result in project delays and increased costs, which could be significant. the construction of this facility requires a large and specialized work force, necessary equipment and materials, and sophisticated engineering. there can be no assurance that cameron lng jv's contractor will not encounter delays due to disruptions in obtaining the necessary equipment and materials, inability to field the necessary workforce, or engineering issues that were not contemplated. as construction progresses, cameron lng jv may decide or be forced to submit change orders to the contractor that could result in longer construction periods and higher construction costs or both. in addition, weather conditions, new regulation, labor disputes, breakdown or failure of equipment, and litigation, such as the lawsuit filed by the sierra club and gulf restoration network challenging the june 19, 2014 ferc order that approved the construction of the cameron lng liquefaction project, could substantially delay the project. as we do not control cameron lng jv, we are dependent on reaching a consensus with one or more of our joint venture partners to resolve a variety of issues that could transpire. the inability to timely resolve issues, including construction issues, could cause substantial delays to the completion of this project. a substantial delay could result in cost overruns, substantially postpone the earnings we anticipate deriving from this facility, and require additional cash investments by us and our joint venture partners. the anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of approximately $7 billion of incremental investment, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, a brownfield project at our existing energ a costa azul regasification facility in baja california, mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all of these projects is the risk that an extended decline in current and forward projections of crude oil prices could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of coal in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. oil prices at certain moderate levels could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the united states (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). sempra natural gas has entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed port arthur liquefaction project with an affiliate of woodside petroleum ltd. the agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the port arthur liquefaction project. also, sempra natural gas, ienova and a subsidiary of pemex entered into a memorandum of understanding to collaborate in and share the costs of the potential development of a liquefaction project at ienova's energ a costa azul facility in mexico. any decisions by the parties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the formation of these potential joint ventures and the potential development of these projects will require, among other things, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each such party. in addition, all of our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, tolling capacity agreements or natural gas supply and lng sales agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the energ a costa azul facility in mexico is subject to on-going land and permitting disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, energ a costa azul has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. for example, the epa issued permitting guidance in february 2014 under the federal safe drinking water act (sdwa) for hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels. in april 2015, the epa issued a proposed rule that would prevent the discharge of hydraulic fracturing wastewater into publicly owned treatment works, and in march 2015, the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior adopted rules imposing new requirements for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including new requirements relating to public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, as well as wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three train cameron lng facility currently under construction. increased competition could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the federal electricity commission (comisi n federal de electricidad, or cfe) and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. finally, our natural gas storage assets in the gulf coast region compete with other facilities for storage customers as existing contracts expire and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the energ a costa azul lng facility and the cameron lng facility (within the cameron lng jv) have entered into long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties at each facility. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. at cameron lng jv, although the cameron lng terminal is partially contracted for regasification, there is a termination agreement in place that will result in the termination of this agreement at the point in the construction of the new liquefaction facilities where piping tie-ins to the existing regasification terminal become necessary, which we expect to occur during the first quarter of 2017. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express pipeline llc (rockies express), a partnership that operates a natural gas pipeline, the rockies express pipeline (rex). all of rockies express' original capacity sales on rex provided for west-to-east service. sempra natural gas has an agreement for such capacity on rex through november 2019. the capacity costs are offset by revenues from releases of the capacity contracted to third parties. certain capacity release commitments totaling $22 million concluded during 2013. contracting activity related to that capacity has not been sufficient to offset all of our capacity payments to rockies express. rockies express has been developing east-to-west service offerings on rex. in 2013, ferc issued a decision ruling that east-to-west service offerings within a single rex zone would not result in potential rate reductions under most favored nation provisions in the original customers' west-to-east contracts, and certain west-to-east customers sought rehearing of that decision. in 2014 and 2015, rockies express reached settlements with these west-to-east customers, and the customers' requests for rehearing have been withdrawn. in addition, several customers are facing liquidity issues which may result in bankruptcy. there can be no assurance that if those customers enter bankruptcy, that we will be able to find new customers to replace that capacity. our natural gas storage assets include operational and development assets at bay gas storage company, ltd. (bay gas) in alabama and mississippi hub, llc (mississippi hub) in mississippi, as well as our development project, la storage, llc (la storage) in louisiana. la storage could be positioned to support lng export from the cameron lng jv terminal and other liquefaction projects, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. however, changes in the u.s. natural gas market could also lead to diminished natural gas storage values. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas and mississippi hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. in addition, our la storage development project may be unable to either attract cash flow commitments sufficient to support further investment or extend its ferc construction permit beyond its current expiration date of june 2017. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not contracted. market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their recorded value. to the extent the recorded (carrying) value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. the recorded value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2015 was $1.5 billion. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra natural gas' obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our lng terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the lng terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra natural gas also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas, propane and ethane distribution, storage and transportation projects, electricity generation, distribution and transmission facilities, and an lng terminal. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws valuation of goodwill our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's energ a costa azul lng terminal and other international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. sempra natural gas accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is $983 million at december 31, 2015. also, sempra natural gas owns a 25-percent interest in rockies express, a joint venture that operates the rex natural gas pipeline. our investment in rockies express was $477 million at december 31, 2015. at december 31, 2015, sempra renewables had investments totaling $855 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with pemex that operates several natural gas pipelines and propane and ethane systems in northern mexico. sempra mexico also has a 50-percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california. at december 31, 2015, these investments totaled $519 million. sempra energy has an investment balance of $67 million at december 31, 2015 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities llp (rbs sempra commodities) partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra renewables and sempra natural gas have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 4, and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 6 risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the annual report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will, as the case may be, have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities or those of our subsidiaries. sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries. sempra energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, common and preferred stock dividends (if any), and long-term debt obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. some jurisdictions impose taxes on cash transferred to the united states, which could reduce the cash available to us. to the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our united states operations, we may incur significant u.s. and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to have their credit ratings downgraded, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and any downgrades of sempra energy's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy. if the credit ratings of sempra energy or any of its subsidiaries were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk. we have significant foreign operations in mexico and south america. our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to fully mitigate with our actions. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all of our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties, and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which may be driven by changes in their environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities that give rise to mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in other comprehensive income caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in results of operations impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations and market risk foreign currency and inflation rate risk in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. mexico has developed a new legal framework for the regulation of the hydrocarbons and electric power sectors based on a package of constitutional amendments approved by the mexican congress in december 2013 and implementing legislation enacted in 2014 and the issuance of new regulations thereunder. however, given the relatively recent creation of this legal framework, it is uncertain how it will be interpreted in practice. we also cannot predict the manner in which the new legal framework will affect any new business opportunities that ienova may wish to pursue. the changes introduced by the new legal framework may require ienova to obtain amendments to its existing permits or secure additional permits to operate its energy facilities or to provide its services, to take additional actions to secure rights-of-way for its projects, to perform social impact assessments, and to obtain the consent of indigenous communities for the development of certain projects, any or all of which may cause ienova to incur additional material costs in connection with the development of its projects. the current u.s. administration has previously indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement, or nafta, and implement u.s. immigration policy changes. the current u.s. administration has stated that it is reviewing various options, including tariffs, for funding new mexico u.s. border security infrastructure. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets. in addition, if this occurs, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the mexican economy and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries severe weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis and fires, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own and in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compression facilities lng terminals and storage electric transmission and distribution nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities power generation plants, including natural gas-fired and renewable energy generation nuclear power facilities (currently being decommissioned) such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other greenhouse gases; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses, including our international operations. drought conditions in california and the western united states increase the risk of catastrophic wildfires in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy. drought conditions also reduce the amount of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities in the northwest united states, which could adversely impact the availability of a reliable energy supply into the california electric grid managed by the california iso. if alternate supplies of electric generation are not available to replace the lower level of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities, this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's service territory. in addition, severe weather conditions could result in delays and/or cost increases to our capital projects. another example of weather impacting operations is a strong el ni o weather pattern in the pacific ocean, which can cause severe rainstorms in coastal areas. significant rainstorms and associated high winds, such as those caused by a strong el ni o weather pattern, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs, and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities or our utilities in mexico or south america encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or requirements or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances. changes in tax policies, including potential tax reform provisions, such as the elimination of the deduction for interest and non-deductibility of all or a portion of the cost of imported materials, equipment and commodities, could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss potential u.s. federal tax reform further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing performance in the annual report. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the cpuc before entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of lng terminals; natural gas pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and propane and ethane systems require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements with the city of los angeles and los angeles county, where the aliso canyon facility is located, are due to expire in 2017. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and greenhouse gas, or ghg, emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our lng terminals; natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy projects and properties; regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our joint ventures, are subject to laws and regulations protecting migratory birds, which have recently been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, california senate bill 350 requires all load-serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that will ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. in addition, possible changes in federal regulation of over-the-counter derivatives regulated by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission could impact the cost and effectiveness of our hedging programs, as we discuss in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by our businesses or may not always work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot ensure that a successful attack has not and will not occur. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas, ethane, or propane pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. finally, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming, that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents. our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful. emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets or the operating assets of our equity method investments. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability and our investment partners' abilities to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. if we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, or if implemented technology fails to operate as intended, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological changes that could negatively impact our businesses include sempra utilities technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets including energy storage technology, and the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects). sempra infrastructure at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' power sales customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra lng &amp; midstream, technological advances could reduce the demand for natural gas. these technologies include cost-effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service rates of depreciation capital structure long-term resource procurement rates of return sales of securities the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or authorizations for less than full recovery may adversely affect the working capital and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. in december 2014, the cpuc issued a decision incorporating a risk-based decision-making framework into all future general rate case (grc) application filings for major natural gas and electric utilities in california. as the framework is still in the developing stages, we cannot estimate whether its application in future grc applications will result in full recovery of costs. we discuss this further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and mechanisms to all california utilities. under these, earnings potential over authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, and reductions in authorized base margins are tied to not achieving specific performance and operating goals. at both of the california utilities, the areas that are currently eligible for performance mechanisms are operational activities designated by the cpuc and energy efficiency programs; at sdg&amp;e, electric reliability performance; and, at socalgas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. although the california utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. additionally, if the california utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. in september 2016, california adopted new laws concerning the cpuc that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. changes to the rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses, rights of way and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over native american tribal land held in trust by the federal governments. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, difficulties in renewing rights-of-way and other property rights, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. coordinating these projects for successful completion requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities could experience difficulties in renewing rights-of-way or other forms of property rights for existing assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as the utility reform network (turn), utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting and income tax matters; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating and other facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these and other operations that may be recovered from customers. socalgas will incur significant costs and expenses related to remediating the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and to mitigate local community and environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for fines, penalties, damages and greenhouse gas mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county. the aliso canyon facility has been operated by socalgas since 1972. ss25 is more than one mile away from and 1,200 feet above the closest homes. it is one of more than 100 injection-and-withdrawal wells at the storage facility. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, and in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to a stipulation and order by the los angeles county superior court (superior court), socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it before the well was permanently sealed, at significant expense to socalgas. following the permanent sealing of the well and the completion of the los angeles county department of public health's (dph) indoor testing of certain homes in the porter ranch community, which concluded that indoor conditions did not present a long-term health risk and that it was safe for residents to return home, the superior court issued an order in may 2016 ruling that currently relocated residents be given the choice to request residence cleaning prior to returning home, with such cleaning to be performed according to the dph's proposed protocol and at socalgas' expense. socalgas completed the cleaning program, and the relocation program ended in july 2016. apart from the superior court order, in may 2016 the dph also issued a directive that socalgas professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and have experienced symptoms from the natural gas leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the total costs incurred to mitigate local community impacts of the leak are significant and may increase, and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation various governmental agencies, including doggr, dph, scaqmd, carb, los angeles regional water quality control board, california division of occupational safety and health, cpuc, phmsa, epa, los angeles county district attorney's office and california attorney general's office, have investigated or are investigating this incident. other federal agencies (e.g., the doe and u.s. department of the interior) investigated the incident in conjunction with the preparation of an interagency task force report, ensuring safe and reliable underground natural gas storage , published in october 2016. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct an independent analysis under their supervision and to be funded by socalgas to investigate the technical root cause of the aliso canyon gas leak. this investigation is currently ongoing. as of february 27, 2017, 250 lawsuits, including over 14,000 plaintiffs, have been filed against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. these various lawsuits assert causes of action for negligence, negligence per se, strict liability, property damage, fraud, public and private nuisance (continuing and permanent), trespass, inverse condemnation, fraudulent concealment, unfair business practices and loss of consortium, among other things. a complaint alleging violations of proposition 65 was also filed. many of these complaints seek class action status, compensatory and punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief, costs of future medical monitoring and attorneys' fees. in addition to the lawsuits described above, a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws has been filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers and directors, and four shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas. three complaints have also been filed by public entities, including the california attorney general, the scaqmd and the county of los angeles. these complaints seek various remedies, including injunctive relief, abatement of the public nuisance, civil penalties, payment of the cost of a longitudinal health study, and money damages, as well as punitive damages and attorneys' fees. in february 2017, socalgas entered into a settlement agreement with the scaqmd under which socalgas will pay $8.5 million and scaqmd will dismiss its complaint and petition for dismissal of a stipulated abatement order issued by its hearing board. separately, in february 2016, the los angeles county district attorney's office filed a misdemeanor criminal complaint against socalgas seeking penalties and other remedies for alleged failure to provide timely notice of the leak and for allegedly violating certain california health and safety code provisions. on november 29, 2016, the court approved a settlement between socalgas and the district attorney's office whereby socalgas agreed to plead no contest to a misdemeanor for the alleged failure to provide timely notice of the leak and to spend approximately $4.3 million on reimbursement of government agency expenses, operational commitments, and fines and penalties, in exchange for the dismissal of the remaining counts. certain individuals residing near aliso canyon who objected to the settlement have filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, as well as a petition asking the superior court to set aside the november 29, 2016 order and grant them restitution. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the aliso canyon incident or our responses thereto. for a more detailed description of the governmental investigations and civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the costs of defending against the civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with the various investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil and criminal fines, costs and other penalties, if awarded or imposed, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental orders and additional regulation in january 2016, the governor of the state of california issued an order proclaiming a state of emergency to exist in los angeles county due to the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon facility. the governor's order imposed various orders with respect to: stopping the leak; protecting public health and safety; ensuring accountability; and strengthening oversight. also in january 2016, the hearing board of the scaqmd ordered socalgas to take various actions in connection with injections and withdrawals of natural gas at aliso canyon, sealing the well, monitoring, reporting, safety and funding a health study, among other things. as discussed above, socalgas has entered into a settlement agreement with the scaqmd that calls for the scaqmd to petition its hearing board for dismissal of the order. we provide further detail regarding the governor's order and scaqmd's order in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in december 2015, socalgas made a commitment to mitigate the actual natural gas released from the leak and has been working on a plan to accomplish the mitigation. in march 2016, pursuant to the governor's order, the carb issued its recommended approach to achieve full mitigation of the climate impacts from the aliso canyon natural gas leak, which includes recommendations that: reductions in short-lived climate pollutants and other greenhouse gases be at least equivalent to the amount of the emissions from the leak, a 20-year global warming potential be used in deriving the amount of reductions required (rather than the 100-year term the carb and other state and federal agencies use in regulating emissions), and all of the mitigation occur in california over the next five to ten years without the use of allowances or offsets. in october 2016, carb issued a final report concluding that the incident resulted in total emissions from 90,350 to 108,950 metric tons of methane, and asserting that socalgas should mitigate 109,000 metric tons of methane to fully mitigate the greenhouse gas impacts of the leak. although we have not agreed with carb's estimate of methane released, we continue to work with carb on developing a mitigation plan. the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. in june 2016, the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or the pipes act of 2016 was enacted. among other things, the pipes act requires phmsa to issue, within two years of passage, minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities, and imposes a user fee on underground storage facilities as needed to implement the safety standards. in october 2016, the interagency task force formed by the doe and phmsa in response to the leak at aliso canyon issued its report, recommending that phmsa adopt new safety regulations and providing 44 specific recommendations to industry and to federal, state, and local regulators and governments, which may result in additional regulations. phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb have each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr has issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. also, the los angeles county board of supervisors formed a task force to review and potentially implement new, more stringent land use (zoning) requirements and associated regulations and enforcement protocols for oil and gas activities, including natural gas storage field operations. we provide further detail regarding new regulations and legislation in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, have been or may be scheduled, additional legislation has been proposed in the california legislature, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of the aliso canyon incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. aliso canyon, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. socalgas has not injected natural gas into aliso canyon since october 25, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor, and sb 380. limited withdrawals of natural gas from aliso canyon have been made in 2017 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. in november 2016, socalgas submitted a request to doggr seeking authorization to resume injection operations at the aliso canyon storage facility. in accordance with sb 380, doggr held public meetings on february 1 and 2, 2017 to receive public comment on doggr's findings from its gas storage and well safety review and proposed pressure limits for the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. the public comment period has expired. it remains for doggr to issue its safety determination, after which the cpuc must concur with doggr's determination, before injections at the facility can resume. if the aliso canyon facility were to be taken out of service for any meaningful period of time, it could result in an impairment of the facility, significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2016, the aliso canyon facility has a net book value of $531 million, including $217 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compression station. any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors and officers liability insurance, we have four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we have been communicating with our insurance carriers, and we have received $169 million of insurance proceeds for control of well expenses and temporary relocation costs. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. our recorded estimate as of december 31, 2016 of $780 million of certain costs in connection with the aliso canyon storage facility leak may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, any costs not included in the $780 million estimate could be material. the $780 million estimate does not include unsettled damage claims, restitution, or civil, administrative or criminal fines, costs and other penalties. in addition, such estimate excludes the costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the dph directive, future legal costs to defend litigation and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage, or if such costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional information we discuss aliso canyon matters further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's pipeline safety enhancement plan (psep). in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' plan for implementing psep, and established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. various psep-related proceedings are regularly pending before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests, which are often challenged by intervening parties. these proceedings are described in more detail in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance in the annual report. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs. from 2011 through 2016, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested $1.1 billion and $302 million, respectively, in psep. as of december 31, 2016, socalgas has received approval for recovery of $33 million. if the cpuc were to deny rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. california senate bill (sb) 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. the cpuc previously implemented both electric and gas safety enforcement programs whereby electric and gas utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. citations under either program may be appealed to the cpuc. penalties imposed under these programs can be significant, exceeding $1.5 billion in one instance. in september 2016, the cpuc issued a decision making further refinements to the electric and gas safety enforcement programs. the decision harmonizes the rules for the two programs, further defines the criteria for issuing a citation and penalty, sets an administrative limit of $8 million per citation issued by staff under its delegated authority and makes certain other changes to rules related to self-reporting and notifying local officials. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to be in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of a more significant fixed charge, could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. as higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, such as wind, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that establishes comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded time of use rates, and implements a super-user electric surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent within each climate zone. the surcharge will increase over time, ultimately reaching a rate of more than double the first tier rate. the decision will be implemented over a five year period from 2015 to 2020, and should result in significant relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020 (but it also sets certain conditions for the implementation of a fixed charge), after the initial reforms are implemented. the establishment of a fixed charge for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers as distributed energy resources could generally reduce delivered volumes and increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure by implementing a rate structure that maintains reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. meaningful net energy metering, or nem, reform must continue to progress to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to nem customers while minimizing the cost shift (or subsidy) being borne by non-solar customers. due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own power using eligible renewable resources (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive power from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the proportionate costs not paid by nem customers are paid (i.e., subsidized) by consumers not participating in nem. in addition, the continuing increase of self-generated solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. appropriate nem reforms are necessary to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations were to increase substantially between 2016 and when more significant reforms take effect in 2019 or later, as described below, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327. the nem program was originally established in 1995 and is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, they receive compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. in january 2016, the cpuc adopted a decision making modest changes to the nem program, which require nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to time-of-use rates. together with a reduction in tiered rate differentials and the potential implementation of a fixed charge component in 2020, these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary and appropriate. in march 2016, sdg&amp;e, edison, pg&amp;e, turn and the california coalition of utility employees filed applications with the cpuc requesting rehearing of its january 2016 decision. in september 2016, the cpuc issued an order denying the rehearing requests in all respects. sdg&amp;e implemented the adopted successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the prior nem program. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings: to evaluate changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; to consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; to evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and to clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for the majority of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as direct access and community choice aggregation (cca). direct access is currently closed, but utility customers have the ability to receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. a number of cities in our service territory have expressed interest in cca, which, if widely adopted, could result in substantial reductions in the load we are required to serve. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources are borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. this issue is addressed by rate mechanisms that attempt to ensure bundled ratepayer indifference in the event of departing load, but these existing mechanisms may not be sufficient to address the full extent of the potential cost shift in the event of significant departing load, and sdg&amp;e bears some risk that its procured resources become stranded and the associated costs are not recoverable. in addition, the ferc has adopted changes that have opened transmission development to competition from independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for the construction and operation of transmission facilities. these changes could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's business and prospects. recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval, and insurance coverage for future wildfires may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur. sdg&amp;e is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. through december 31, 2016 , sdg&amp;e's payments for claim settlements plus funds estimated to be required for settlement of outstanding claims and legal fees have exceeded its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. however, sdg&amp;e has concluded that it is probable that it will be permitted to recover in rates a substantial portion of the reasonably incurred costs of resolving wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. at december 31, 2016 , sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's consolidated balance sheets included $352 million in other regulatory assets (long-term) related to cpuc-regulated operations for these costs incurred and the estimated resolution of pending claims. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision allowing sdg&amp;e to maintain an authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. in september 2015, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting rate recovery of such costs, and is proposing to recover the costs in rates over a six- to ten-year period. the cpuc has scheduled a two-phased proceeding to address sdg&amp;e's request. sdg&amp;e has responded to testimony submitted by intervening parties raising various concerns with sdg&amp;e's operations and management prior to and during the 2007 wildfires, and have asked the cpuc to reject sdg&amp;e's request for cost recovery. we discuss these cost recovery proceedings in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. recovery of these costs in rates will require future regulatory approval. sdg&amp;e will continue to assess the likelihood, amount and timing of such recoveries in rates. should sdg&amp;e conclude that recovery of excess wildfire costs in rates is no longer probable, at that time sdg&amp;e would record a charge against earnings. if sdg&amp;e had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to cpuc-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated at december 31, 2016, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to approximately $208 million. a failure to obtain substantial or full recovery of these costs from customers, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. a loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and the affected california utility's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or with terms similar to those presently available. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains nuclear decommissioning trusts for the purpose of providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. depending on how the internal revenue service (irs) or the u.s. department of treasury ultimately interprets or alters regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for spent fuel management where edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of spent fuel management costs in litigation against, or in settlements with, the doe. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs that may be paid for or reimbursed from a qualified fund. these proposed regulations are not yet finalized, but sdg&amp;e is working with outside counsel to clarify with the irs some of the provisions in the proposed regulations to confirm that the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to access the trust funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs incurred in 2016 and subsequent years. until the doe litigation is resolved, and/or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for such spent fuel management costs. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. in november 2014, the cpuc approved the amended settlement agreement that resolved the investigation into the steam generator replacement project that ultimately led to the shut-down of songs. various petitions have since been filed to reopen the settlement. in december 2016, the commissioner and administrative law judge assigned to the proceeding issued a ruling directing sdg&amp;e and edison to meet and confer with other parties to the proceeding to determine whether an agreement could be reached to modify the amended settlement agreement previously approved by the cpuc to resolve allegations that unreported ex parte communications between edison and the cpuc resulted in an unfair advantage at the time the settlement agreement was negotiated. if no agreement to modify the amended settlement agreement is reached by april 28, 2017, the cpuc will consider other options, including entertaining additional testimony, hearings and briefs. we cannot assure you that the amended settlement agreement will not be renegotiated, modified or set aside as a result of this proceeding. we provide additional detail in note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our sempra south american utilities and sempra infrastructure businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. in particular, north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively impact profitability at sempra lng &amp; midstream . unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng terminals; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction (epc) agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or natural gas regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, the cameron lng holdings, llc joint venture (cameron lng jv) is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the anticipated incremental investment in the three-train liquefaction project is estimated to be approximately $7 billion , including the cost of the lump-sum, turnkey construction contract, development engineering costs and permitting costs, but excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. the total cost of the facility, including the cost of our original regasification facility contributed to the joint venture plus interest during construction, financing costs and required reserves, is estimated to be approximately $10 billion . if construction, financing or other project costs are higher than we currently expect, we may have to contribute additional cash exceeding our current estimates. the majority of the incremental investment in the joint venture will be project-financed and the balance provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of $3.9 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv's achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. if, due to the joint venture's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.9 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering problems, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract with a joint venture contractor comprised of subsidiaries of chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v. and chiyoda corporation, who are jointly and severally liable for performance under the contract. if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, cameron lng jv may be required to engage a substitute contractor, which would result in project delays and increased costs, which could be significant. the construction of this facility requires a large and specialized work force, necessary equipment and materials, and sophisticated engineering. there can be no assurance that cameron lng jv's contractor will not encounter delays due to disruptions in obtaining the necessary equipment and materials, inability to field the necessary workforce, weather conditions, or engineering issues that were not contemplated. in october 2016, cameron lng jv received an indication from the epc contractor that the respective in-service dates for each train may be delayed. any such construction delays will defer a portion of the 2018 and 2019 earnings anticipated from the cameron lng project. as construction progresses, cameron lng jv may decide or be forced to submit change orders to the contractor that could result in longer construction periods and higher construction costs or both. in addition, new regulations, labor disputes, breakdown or failure of equipment and litigation could substantially delay the project. as we do not control cameron lng jv, we are dependent on reaching a consensus with one or more of our joint venture partners to resolve a variety of issues that could transpire. the inability to timely resolve issues, including construction issues, could cause substantial delays to the completion of this project. a substantial delay could result in cost overruns, substantially postpone the earnings we anticipate deriving from this facility, and require additional cash investments by us and our joint venture partners. the anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of approximately $7 billion of incremental investment, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, a brownfield project at our existing energ a costa azul regasification facility in baja california, mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all of these projects is the risk that an extended decline in current and forward projections of crude oil prices could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of coal in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. oil prices at certain moderate levels could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the united states (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). sempra lng &amp; midstream has entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed port arthur liquefaction project with an affiliate of woodside petroleum ltd. the agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the port arthur liquefaction project. also, sempra lng &amp; midstream, ienova and a subsidiary of petr leos mexicanos (or pemex, the mexican state-owned oil company) entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed liquefaction project at ienova's existing energ a costa azul regasification facility in mexico. the agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial activities associated with developing the potential liquefaction project. we are sharing costs with pemex on the development efforts. any decisions by the parties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the formation of these potential joint ventures and the potential development of these projects will require, among other things, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each such party. in addition, all of our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, tolling capacity agreements or natural gas supply and lng sales agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all of the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. one of the partners indicated to sempra energy and the other partners that it does not intend to invest additional capital in cameron lng jv with respect to the expansion. as a result, discussions among the partners have occurred, and we are considering a variety of options to attempt to move the expansion project forward. these activities have contributed to delays in developing firm pricing information and securing customer commitments. in light of these developments, we cannot assure you that the various consents required for expansion of the cameron lng project will be obtained. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the energ a costa azul facility in mexico is subject to on-going land disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, energ a costa azul has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in our business and factors influencing future performance in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. for example, the epa issued permitting guidance in february 2014 under the federal safe drinking water act (sdwa) for hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels. in april 2015, the epa issued a proposed rule that would prevent the discharge of hydraulic fracturing wastewater into publicly owned treatment works, and in march 2015, the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior adopted rules imposing new requirements for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including new requirements relating to public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, as well as wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the sdwa and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three train cameron lng facility currently under construction. increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the federal electricity commission (comisi n federal de electricidad, or cfe) and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, it is likely that most of these projects will not be completed. finally, as existing contracts expire at our natural gas storage assets in the gulf coast region, we compete with other facilities for storage customers that could continue to support the existing book value of these assets, and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has previously indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement, or nafta. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the united states. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the energ a costa azul lng facility and the cameron lng facility (within the cameron lng jv) have entered into long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties at each facility. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the lng facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. at cameron lng jv, although the cameron lng terminal is partially contracted for regasification, there is a termination agreement in place that will result in the termination of the regasification contract at the point during the construction of the new liquefaction facilities where piping tie-ins to the existing regasification terminal become necessary. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with engie s.a. (formerly gdf suez s.a.) and affiliates of mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co. ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream 's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our natural gas storage assets include operational and development assets at bay gas storage company, ltd. (bay gas) in alabama and mississippi hub, llc (mississippi hub) in mississippi, as well as our development project, la storage, llc (la storage) in louisiana. la storage could be positioned to support lng export from the cameron lng jv terminal and other liquefaction projects, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. however, changes in the u.s. natural gas market could also lead to diminished natural gas storage values. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas and mississippi hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. in addition, our la storage development project may be unable to either attract cash flow commitments sufficient to support further investment or extend its ferc construction permit beyond its current expiration date of june 2017. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not contracted. market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their recorded value. to the extent the recorded (carrying) value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. the recorded value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2016 was $1.5 billion. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we provide information about these matters in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. in november 2015, a major u.s. credit rating agency revised pemex's global foreign currency and local currency credit ratings from a3 to baa1 and changed the outlook for its credit ratings to negative. in march 2016, the same major credit rating agency further downgraded pemex's global foreign currency and local currency credit ratings from baa1 to baa3. in may, october and december 2016, in connection with debt offerings by pemex, the same major credit agency reaffirmed that the outlook on pemex's credit ratings remains negative. pemex is also subject to the control of the mexican government, which could limit its ability to satisfy its external debt obligations. although pemex is a state productive enterprise of mexico, its financing obligations are not guaranteed by the mexican government. as both a partner in a sempra mexico joint venture that holds a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline project and a customer with capacity contracts for transportation services on sempra mexico's ethane pipelines, if pemex were unable to meet any or all of its obligations to sempra mexico, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream 's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our lng terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the lng terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we are also engaged in disputes regarding permits at our energ a sierra ju rez wind project in mexico, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation, liquid petroleum gas storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation, electricity generation, distribution and transmission facilities, and an lng terminal. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws valuation of goodwill our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's energ a costa azul lng terminal and other international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the annual report. ienova's completed acquisitions of the remaining 50-percent interest in the gasoductos de chihuahua joint venture and of the ventika wind power generation facilities will subject ienova to integration challenges and risks. ienova's completed acquisitions of the remaining 50-percent interest in the gasoductos de chihuahua joint venture from pemex tri and of the ventika i and ventika ii wind power facilities from fisterra energy and certain minority shareholders will subject ienova to substantial integration challenges and risks. ienova's expectations for the operating performance of the existing projects and the projects under construction by gasoductos de chihuahua are based on assumptions and estimates derived from its prior experience in the development of joint venture projects with pemex tri, and ienova's expectations regarding the results of operations of the ventika wind power generation facilities are based on its due diligence and assumptions and estimates regarding the future productivity of those assets. the ability of these entities to achieve their expected results is subject to the risks inherent in the development, construction and management of energy projects generally. following these acquisitions, gasoductos de chihuahua and/or the ventika wind power generation facilities may not perform as expected, and the revenues generated by such acquisitions may prove insufficient to support the financing utilized to acquire such entities or to maintain such acquisitions. furthermore, the successful integration and consolidation of any acquisition requires significant human, financial and other resources, which may distract the attention of ienova's management from ienova's existing projects, give rise to disruptions in such projects or result in an acquisition not being adequately integrated. ienova may be unsuccessful at integrating either of these businesses with its own, or may experience difficulties in connection with the integration of their operations and systems (including it, accounting, financial, control, risk management and safety systems). any failure by ienova to achieve the expected results, synergies and/or economies of scale from the integration of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on ienova's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or prospects. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20 -percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is approximately $1 billion at december 31, 2016 . at december 31, 2016 , sempra renewables had investments totaling $844 million in several joint ventures to operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of transcanada corporation to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50 -percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california, and a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with pemex which, in turn, owns a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. at december 31, 2016 , these various joint venture investments by sempra mexico totaled $180 million . sempra energy has an investment balance of $67 million at december 31, 2016 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities llp (rbs sempra commodities) partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in notes 6 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 4, and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2016, sempra energy had approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.9 percent of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to investments in gasoductos de chihuahua in mexico, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the annual report. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by item 7a is set forth in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk in the annual report.risk factors 37 risk factors and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. closing conditions the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of the puct. certain conditions, such as approval from the bankruptcy court, the ferc, the vermont department of financial regulation and receipt of a private letter ruling from the irs, have been satisfied. if the required governmental consents and approvals are not received, or if they are not received on terms that satisfy the closing conditions in the merger agreement, the merger could be abandoned, delayed or restructured. the merger agreement provides that it will terminate if the merger is not consummated by april 18, 2018, subject to limited exceptions. one of those exceptions provides that, if the merger is not consummated because the requisite puct approval has not been obtained by april 18, 2018, but such approval is still capable of being obtained within 90 days thereafter, the april 18, 2018 date shall be extended for 90 days for purposes of continuing to pursue such approval, unless otherwise agreed by efh and efih (acting together) and sempra energy. we currently expect that the merger will close in the first half of 2018, although there can be no assurance that the merger will be completed on that timetable, or at all. our segments no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of sempra energy's consolidated revenues in 2017, 2016 or 2015. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e is a regulated public utility that provides electric services to a population of approximately 3.6 million and natural gas services to approximately 3.3 million of that population, covering a 4,100 square mile service territory in southern california that encompasses san diego county and an adjacent portion of southern orange county. electric utility operations customers and demand. sdg&amp;e provides electric services through the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: sdg&amp;e electric customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (1) (millions of kwh) december 31, years ended december 31, 2017 2017 2016 2015 residential 1,286,200 6,577 6,685 7,143 commercial 152,000 6,763 6,700 6,877 industrial 400 2,198 2,189 2,161 street and highway lighting 2,000 79 75 83 1,440,600 15,617 15,649 16,264 direct access 4,900 3,394 3,515 3,652 total 1,445,500 19,011 19,164 19,916 (1) includes intercompany sales. no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of sdg&amp;e's revenues from electricity sold in 2017, 2016 or 2015. 13 sdg&amp;e's system average rate is based on authorized revenue requirements divided by authorized sales volumes. sdg&amp;e's system average rate was $0.238, $0.206 and $0.218 per kwh in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the 2017 increase compared to 2016 was primarily the result of undercollected power costs in 2016. the 2016 decrease compared to 2015 was driven by the inclusion in 2015 of undercollections associated with activities prior to 2015, including the delay in implementing into rates the increases associated with the 2012 grc. a significant proportion of sdg&amp;e's costs to operate are independent of sales volumes, which can contribute to system average rate variances as sales volumes change. an electric utility's system average rate can be affected by numerous factors, which are not necessarily common to other utilities regionally or nationally. in general, the utilization of a typical electric utility's distribution assets is significantly less than their capacity because the assets are designed to meet peak needs. compared to the typical utility in the u.s., sdg&amp;e delivers a higher relative percentage of its total power sold to residential customers, who on average consume less power than an average commercial customer. san diego's mild climate and sdg&amp;e's robust energy efficiency programs also contribute to lower consumption by our customers. in addition, rooftop solar installations, especially in recent years, have reduced residential and commercial volumes sold by sdg&amp;e. as of december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the residential and commercial rooftop solar capacity in sdg&amp;e's territory totaled 836 mw, 694 mw and 496 mw, respectively. all these factors contribute to generally higher system average rates, where the cost of building and operating our assets is spread over a relatively smaller sales volume. in addition to these factors, sdg&amp;e's cpuc-approved rate design includes a tiered residential pricing structure. we discuss electric rate reform further in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. demand for electricity is dependent on the health and expansion of the southern california economy, prices of alternative energy products, consumer preference, environmental regulations, legislation, renewable power generation, the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs, demand-side management goals and distributed generation resources. california's energy policy supports increased electrification, particularly electrification of vehicles, which could result in significant increases in sales volumes in the coming years. other external factors, such as the price of purchased power, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, demand for natural gas, and general economic conditions, can also result in significant shifts in the market price of electricity, which may in turn impact demand. demand for electricity is also impacted by seasonal weather patterns (or seasonality ), tending to increase in the summer months to meet cooling load and in the winter months to meet heating load. electric resources. to meet customer demand, sdg&amp;e procures power from its own electric generation facilities and from other suppliers through cpuc-approved purchased-power contracts or through purchases on a spot basis. sdg&amp;e's supply as of december 31, 2017 is as follows: sdg&amp;e electric resources (1) contract net operating expiration date capacity (mw) % of total owned generation facilities, natural gas (2) 1,193 22 % purchased-power contracts: qualifying facilities 2019 to 2026 246 5 renewables: wind 2018 to 2035 1,234 23 solar 2030 to 2041 1,306 24 other 2018 and thereafter 53 1 tolling and other (3) 2019 to 2042 1,341 25 total 5,373 100 % (1) excludes approximately 114 mw of battery storage owned (including 70 mw pending cpuc approval) and approximately 13.5 mw of battery storage contracted (all pending cpuc approval). (2) sdg&amp;e owns and operates four natural gas-fired power plants, three of which are in california and one of which is in nevada. (3) includes otay mesa vie. sdg&amp;e is required to interconnect with and purchase power from qfs, a class of generating facilities established by the public utility regulatory policies act of 1978, at rates that do not exceed sdg&amp;e's avoided cost. for sdg&amp;e, qfs include cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes. charges under most of the contracts with qfs are based on what it 14 would incrementally cost sdg&amp;e to produce the power or procure it from other sources. charges under the contracts with other suppliers are for firm and as-generated energy, and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacity. tolling contracts are purchased-power contracts under which sdg&amp;e provides natural gas for generation to the energy supplier. the prices under these contracts include 193 mw at prices that are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis, as shown above. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for the majority of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently closed to new entrants, but utility customers can receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. a number of cities in our service territory have expressed interest in cca, which, if widely adopted, could result in substantial reductions in the load we are required to serve. for example, solana beach (representing less than 1 percent of sdg&amp;e's customer accounts) has elected to begin cca service in 2018. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources are otherwise borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. the cpuc has tried to address this issue by adopting rate mechanisms that attempt to ensure bundled customer indifference in the event of departing load, but these existing mechanisms may not be sufficient to address the full extent of the potential cost shift in the event of significant departing load, and sdg&amp;e bears some risk that its procured resources could become stranded without recovery of the associated costs. natural gas supply for generation facilities. sdg&amp;e procures natural gas under short-term contracts for its owned generation facilities and for certain tolling contracts associated with purchased-power arrangements. purchases are from various southwestern u.s. suppliers and are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices. power pool. sdg&amp;e is a participant in the western systems power pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement that allows access to power trading with more than 300 member utilities, power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers located throughout the u.s. and canada. participants can make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the ferc. participation in the western systems power pool is intended to assist members in managing power delivery and price risk. electric transmission and distribution system. service to sdg&amp;e's customers is supported by its electric transmission and distribution system. at december 31, 2017, sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities included substations and overhead and underground lines. these electric facilities are in san diego, imperial and orange counties of california, and in arizona and nevada. the facilities consist of 2,090 miles of transmission lines, 23,479 miles of distribution lines and 160 substations. periodically, various areas of the service territory require expansion to accommodate customer growth, reliability and safety. sdg&amp;e's 500-kv southwest powerlink transmission line, which is shared with arizona public service company and imperial irrigation district, extends from palo verde, arizona to san diego, california. sdg&amp;e's share of the line is 1,162 mw, although it can be less under certain system conditions. sdg&amp;e's sunrise powerlink is a 500-kv transmission line constructed and operated by sdg&amp;e with import capability of 1,000 mw of power. mexico's baja california transmission system is connected to sdg&amp;e's system via two 230-kv interconnections with combined capacity of up to 408 mw in the north-to-south direction and 800 mw in the south-to-north direction, although it can be less under certain system conditions. edison's transmission system is connected to sdg&amp;e's system via five 230-kv transmission lines. competition. sdg&amp;e faces competition to serve its customer load from the growth in distributed and local power generation, including rooftop solar installations, battery storage, and the corresponding decrease in demand for power delivered through sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution system and from possible departing retail load resulting from customers transferring to da and cca. sdg&amp;e does not earn any return on commodity sales. natural gas utility operations we discuss sdg&amp;e's natural gas utility operations below in california utilities' natural gas utility operations. key noncash performance indicators we use certain financial and non-financial metrics to measure how effective our businesses are in achieving their key business objectives. for sdg&amp;e, these key noncash performance indicators include number of customers, electricity sold, system average rate and natural gas volumes transported and sold. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, 15 customer service, customer reputation, environmental considerations (including quantities of renewable energy purchases), on-time and on-budget completion of major projects and initiatives, and service reliability. socalgas socalgas is a regulated public utility that owns and operates a natural gas distribution, transmission and storage system that supplies natural gas to a population of approximately 21.8 million, covering a 24,000 square mile service territory that encompasses southern california and portions of central california (excluding san diego county, the city of long beach and the desert area of san bernardino county). natural gas utility operations we provide additional information on socalgas' natural gas utility operations below in california utilities' natural gas utility operations. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for socalgas include number of customers and natural gas volumes transported and sold. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, customer service, customer reputation, environmental considerations, natural gas demand by customer segment, on-time and on-budget completion of major projects and initiatives, and service reliability. california utilities natural gas utility operations customers and demand socalgas and sdg&amp;e sell, distribute and transport natural gas. socalgas purchases and stores natural gas for its core customers and sdg&amp;e's core customers on a combined portfolio basis and provides natural gas storage services for others. california utilities natural gas customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (bcf) (1) december 31, years ended december 31, 2017 2017 2016 2015 sdg&amp;e: residential 850,800 commercial 28,700 electric generation and transportation 3,700 natural gas sales 40 40 38 transportation 35 31 35 total 883,200 75 71 73 socalgas: residential 5,689,400 commercial 247,700 industrial 25,600 electric generation and wholesale 40 natural gas sales 301 294 291 transportation 603 610 634 total 5,962,740 904 904 925 (1) includes intercompany sales. for regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. most core customers purchase natural gas directly from socalgas or sdg&amp;e. while core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the california utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. a substantial portion of socalgas' revenues are from core customers. 16 noncore customers at socalgas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, large commercial and industrial, and enhanced oil recovery customers. a portion of socalgas' noncore customers are non-end-users. socalgas' non-end-users include wholesale customers consisting primarily of other ious, including sdg&amp;e, or municipally owned natural gas distribution systems. noncore customers at sdg&amp;e consist primarily of electric generation and large commercial customers. noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements, as the regulatory framework does not allow us to recover the actual cost of natural gas procured and delivered to noncore customers. no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of socalgas' or sdg&amp;e's revenues from natural gas operations in 2017, 2016 or 2015. demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the southern california economy, prices of alternative energy products, consumer preference, environmental regulations, legislation, california's energy policy supporting increased electrification and renewable power generation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. other external factors such as weather, the price of electricity, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, demand for natural gas outside the state of california, and general economic conditions, can also result in significant shifts in market price, which may in turn impact demand. one of the larger sources for natural gas demand is electric generation. natural gas-fired electric generation within southern california (and demand for natural gas supplied to such plants) competes with electric power generated throughout the western u.s. natural gas transported for electric generating plant customers may be affected by the overall demand for electricity, growth in renewable generation (including rooftop solar), the addition of more efficient gas technologies, new energy efficiency initiatives, and the extent that regulatory changes in electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the california utilities' respective service areas. the demand for natural gas may also fluctuate due to volatility in the demand for electricity due to climate change, weather conditions and other impacts, and the availability of competing supplies of electricity such as hydroelectric generation and other renewable energy sources. given the significant quantity of natural gas-fired generation, natural gas is the dispatchable fuel of choice to help ensure electric reliability in our california service territories. the natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and cash provided from operating activities generally is greater during and immediately following the winter heating months. as is prevalent in the industry, but subject to current regulatory limitations, socalgas usually injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (april through october), which reduces cash provided by operating activities during this period, and usually withdraws natural gas from storage during the winter months (november through march), which increases cash provided by operating activities, when customer demand is higher. natural gas procurement and transportation at december 31, 2017, socalgas' natural gas facilities include 2,964 miles of transmission and storage pipelines, 50,577 miles of distribution pipelines, 47,779 miles of service pipelines and nine transmission compressor stations, while sdg&amp;e's natural gas facilities consist of 168 miles of transmission pipelines, 8,928 miles of distribution pipelines, 6,503 miles of service pipelines and one compressor station. socalgas purchases natural gas under short-term and long-term contracts for the california utilities' residential and smaller business customers. socalgas purchases natural gas from various sources, including from canada, the u.s. rockies and the southwestern regions of the u.s. purchases of natural gas are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices. to help ensure the delivery of natural gas supplies to its distribution system and to meet the seasonal and annual needs of customers, socalgas has firm interstate pipeline capacity contracts that require the payment of fixed reservation charges to reserve firm transportation rights. pipeline companies, primarily el paso natural gas company, transwestern pipeline company, pg&amp;e and kern river gas transmission company, provide transportation services into socalgas' intrastate transmission system for supplies purchased by socalgas or its transportation customers from outside of california. natural gas storage socalgas owns four natural gas storage facilities. these facilities have a combined working gas capacity of 137 bcf and have over 200 injection, withdrawal and observation wells that provide natural gas storage services for core, noncore and non-end-use customers. socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's core customers are allocated a portion of socalgas' storage capacity. socalgas offers the remaining storage capacity for sale to others, including sdg&amp;e for its non-core customer requirements, through an open bid process. natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for ensuring service reliability during peak demand periods, including heating needs in the winter, as well as peak electric generation needs in the summer. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage capacity. socalgas discovered a natural gas leak at one of its wells at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in october 2015, and permanently sealed the well in february 2016. socalgas ceased 17 injecting natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility on october 25, 2015, pursuant to orders from doggr and the governor of california, and sb 380. limited withdrawals and injections of natural gas at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were authorized to recommence in 2017. we discuss the aliso canyon natural gas leak in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. sempra south american utilities sempra south american utilities develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure through its two utilities, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. it also owns interests in two energy-services companies, tecnored and tecsur, that provide electric construction and infrastructure services to chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, respectively, as well as third parties. tecnored also sells electricity to non-regulated customers. chilquinta energ a s.a. chilquinta energ a, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra south american utilities, is an electric distribution utility serving a population of approximately two million in the region of valpara so in central chile, with a service area covering 4,400 square miles. chilquinta energ a also serves a population of approximately 130,000 in the communities of parral and linares in the south-central region of maule in chile. chilquinta energ a is the third largest distributor of electricity in chile, with close to a 10-percent share of the market. customers and demand. chilquinta energ a provides electric services through the transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: chilquinta energ a electric customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (millions of kwh) december 31, years ended december 31, 2017 2017 2016 2015 residential 650,133 1,136 1,104 1,097 commercial 44,212 1,211 1,178 1,175 industrial 1,438 500 527 520 street and highway lighting 8,016 89 91 95 703,799 2,936 2,900 2,887 tolling 14 98 90 74 total 703,813 3,034 2,990 2,961 in chile, customers are classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on installed capacity. regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is less than 500 kw. non-regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is greater than 5,000 kw. customers with installed capacity between 500 kw and 5,000 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. non-regulated customers that can buy power from other sources, such as directly from the generator, are classified as tolling customers. both regulated and non-regulated customers pay transmission and distribution tariffs for the transportation of their electricity through the system. there is no risk of stranded costs for chilquinta energ a because ppas with generators are not take-or-pay contracts; rather, chilquinta energ a only purchases power taken by its customers. chilquinta energ a's system average rate (excluding tolling customers) was $0.164, $0.168 and $0.165 per kwh in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. demand for electricity depends on the growth and stability of the chilean economy, customer growth and preferences, prices, policies and environmental regulations driving the substitution of alternative energy products for wood and coal, legislation and energy policy supporting increased electrification of the public and private transportation sector, and the effectiveness and expansion of energy efficiency programs and distributed generation resources. the price of electricity can be affected by the growth of renewable power generation, the amount of hydroelectric power, the market price of oil and natural gas, and transmission and distribution service tariffs, which may, in turn, also impact demand for electricity. 18 other factors that can affect the demand for electricity include weather and seasonality. demand for electricity at chilquinta energ a is higher in the winter months to meet heating load, and tends to decrease during the mild temperatures in the summer months. electric resources. the supply of electric power available to chilquinta energ a comes from purchased-power contracts currently in place with various suppliers. the supply as of december 31, 2017 was as follows: chilquinta energ a electric resources contract net operating expiration date capacity (mw) % of total purchased-power contracts: thermal (1) 2023 to 2026 291 62 % hydro 2023 to 2036 141 30 wind/solar 2023 to 2036 32 7 biomass 2023 to 2036 7 1 total 471 100 % (1) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. power generation system. the national electric system is operated and coordinated by the national electric coordinator (coordinador el ctrico nacional). this institution is managed by a directive council (consejo directivo) formed by five members designated through a public tender. this entity coordinates the operation of the nationwide interconnected electric system. transmission system and access. at december 31, 2017, chilquinta energ a's electric facilities include 10,227 miles of distribution lines, 352 miles of transmission lines and 49 substations. chilquinta energ a also owns a 50-percent interest in eletrans, which operates a 97-mile, double circuit 220-kv transmission line in the atacama region of northern chile, and a 46-mile, double circuit 220-kv transmission line in the los rios region of southern chile. transmission lines in chile are either part of the main transmission system (the national system) or the sub-transmission system (the zonal system). sub-transmission systems, including those owned by chilquinta energ a, are comprised of infrastructure that is interconnected to the electricity system to supply non-regulated and regulated end-users located in the distribution service area. we discuss ongoing transmission line projects at chilquinta energ a's joint ventures in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. competition. chilquinta energ a faces limited competition from the growth in rooftop solar installations, as electricity prices remain competitive and tariffs compensate self-generators only for the commodity component of the energy delivered to the grid. presently, there are no public programs or incentives promoting the adoption of distributed energy generation. in addition, the national electric coordinator will be tendering a significant number of projects, divided between extension work and new development work, for sub-transmission systems. the new development projects in these tenders will be opened to independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for their construction and operation. luz del sur s.a.a. sempra south american utilities owns 83.6 percent of luz del sur, an electric distribution utility that serves a population of approximately 4.9 million in the southern zone of metropolitan lima, peru, with a service area covering approximately 1,394 square miles. luz del sur delivers approximately one-third of all power used in peru. the remaining shares of luz del sur are held by noncontrolling interests and trade on the lima stock exchange (bolsa de valores de lima) under the symbol lusurc1. the shares are subject to regulation by the superintendencia del mercado de valores (superintendency of securities market). 19 customers and demand. luz del sur provides electric services through the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: luz del sur electric customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (millions of kwh) december 31, years ended december 31, 2017 2017 2016 2015 residential 993,784 2,930 2,896 2,845 commercial 98,516 2,416 2,647 2,700 industrial 4,050 784 1,021 1,229 street and highway lighting 5,246 206 201 194 free 143 663 622 581 1,101,739 6,999 7,387 7,549 tolling 253 1,922 1,365 974 total 1,101,992 8,921 8,752 8,523 in peru, customers are classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on capacity demand. regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is less than 200 kw and their energy supply is considered public service. non-regulated customers, which are free and tolling customers, are those whose capacity demand is greater than 2,500 kw. customers with capacity demand between 200 kw and 2,500 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. free customers purchase power directly from a utility and pay the utility a fee for generation, transmission (primary and secondary) and distribution services. tolling customers purchase power from alternate suppliers and pay only a tolling fee to the utility for secondary transmission and distribution services. utilities in peru, including luz del sur, generally have ppas with generators to serve their regulated and free customers' load. because the power purchased by luz del sur from generators is generally based on take-or-pay contracts, luz del sur is exposed to the risk of stranded costs associated with capacity charges, as we discuss in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - factors influencing future performance. luz del sur's system average rate (excluding free and tolling customers) was $0.130, $0.122 and $0.117 per kwh in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. demand for electricity depends on the stability and growth of the peruvian economy, customer growth and usage preferences, electricity prices, legislation and energy policy supporting increased electrification within our service territory. the price of electricity can be affected by changes in energy policy, volatility of spot market prices, the amount of hydroelectric power, the market price of oil and natural gas, changes in inflation and foreign exchange rates, new technologies and transmission and distribution service tariffs, which may also impact demand for electricity. other factors that can affect the demand for electricity include weather and seasonality. demand for electricity at luz del sur is higher in the summer months to meet cooling load, and tends to decrease during the colder temperatures in the winter months. electric resources. the supply of electric power available to luz del sur comes from purchased-power contracts currently in place with various suppliers, its own electric generation facility or purchases made on an as-needed basis. this supply as of december 31, 2017 was as follows: luz del sur electric resources contract firm contracted expiration date capacity (mw) % of total owned generation facility, hydro (1) 61 4 % purchased-power contracts: thermal (2) 2021-2025 413 27 hydro 2021-2025 233 15 combined thermal/hydro 2019-2025 832 54 total 1,539 100 % 20 (1) santa teresa has a nameplate capacity of 100 mw with an associated firm capacity estimated at 61 mw based on guidelines established by the system operator in peru and historical water flows. available excess capacity is sold in the spot market. (2) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. power generation system. the sistema el ctrico interconectado nacional (sein) is the peruvian national interconnected system. the osinergmin, in addition to setting tariffs, supervises the bidding processes for energy purchases between distribution companies and generators. the committee of economic operation of the national interconnected system (comit de operaci n econ mica del sistema interconectado nacional) coordinates the operation and dispatch of electricity of the sein. transmission system and access. at december 31, 2017, luz del sur's electric facilities consisted of 13,966 miles of distribution lines, 216 miles of transmission lines and 40 substations. luz del sur also owns and operates santa teresa, a 100-mw hydroelectric power plant located in the cusco region of peru. transmission lines in peru are divided into principal and secondary systems. the principal system lines are accessible by all generators and allow the flow of energy through the national grid. the secondary system lines connect principal transmission with the network of distribution companies or connect directly to certain final customers. the transmission company receives tariff revenues and collects tolls based on a charge per unit of electricity. we discuss ongoing transmission line and substation projects at luz del sur in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. competition. while electric distribution companies in peru are considered natural monopolies, users consuming more than 200 kw are free to choose the company of their preference, including luz del sur, to provide them with electric power. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for our south american electric distribution utilities' operations are customer count and consumption and transmission line losses. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations, electric reliability, and regulatory compliance. 21 sempra mexico our sempra mexico segment includes the operating companies of our subsidiary, ienova, as well as certain holding companies and risk management activity. ienova develops, builds and operates energy infrastructure in mexico, and owns or holds interests in: natural gas transmission pipelines lpg and ethane systems a natural gas distribution utility electric generation facilities, including wind, solar and a natural gas-fired power plant (presently held for sale) a terminal for the import of lng a terminal for the storage of lpg marine and inland terminal projects for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels marketing operations for the purchase of lng and the purchase and sale of natural gas sempra energy owns 66.4 percent of ienova, with the remaining shares held by noncontrolling interests and traded on the mexican stock exchange under the symbol ienova. the mexican national banking and securities commission (comisi n nacional bancaria y de valores, or cnbv), regulates the shares, which are registered with the mexican national securities registry (registro nacional de valores) maintained by the cnbv. we discuss ienova's noncontrolling interests and its acquisition and divestiture activities in notes 1 and 3, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the following table provides information about sempra mexico's facilities, excluding its ecogas natural gas distribution facilities, that were operational as of december 31, 2017. sempra mexico operating facilities name length of system (miles) compression available (horsepower) first in service pipelines: aguaprieta 8 n/a 2002 empalme lateral 12 n/a 2017 ethane 139 n/a 2015 los ramones i 73 123,000 2014 los ramones norte (1) 281 123,000 2016 ojinaga-el encino 137 n/a 2017 rosarito 188 30,000 2002 samalayuca 23 n/a 1997 san fernando 71 95,670 2003 san isidro-samalayuca 14 46,000 2017 sonora: guaymas-el oro segment 205 n/a 2017 sabe-guaymas segment 313 n/a 2014 tdf lpg 118 n/a 2007 transportadora de gas natural de baja california 28 8,000 2000 compressor stations: gloria a dios 14,300 2001 naco 14,340 2001 storage: storage capacity first in service eca lng terminal 320,000 cubic meters 2008 guadalajara lpg terminal 80,000 barrels 2013 generation: generating capacity (mw) first in service energ a sierra ju rez wind generation (1) 155 2015 tdm natural gas-fired generation (presently held for sale) 625 2003 ventika wind generation 252 2016 (1) sempra mexico has a 50-percent interest in each of these facilities and accounts for them as equity method investments. the information presented herein represents the full nameplate capacity. 22 gas business pipelines and related assets/facilities. at december 31, 2017, sempra mexico's assets/facilities consisted of 1,353 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines, 11 compressor stations, 139 miles of ethane pipelines, 118 miles of lpg pipelines and one lpg storage terminal in mexico. these assets are contracted under long-term, u.s. dollar-based agreements with major industry participants such as the cfe, cenagas, pemex, shell, gazprom, intergen n.v. and other similar counterparties. in 2017, our pipeline assets in mexico had design capacity of approximately 16,501 mmcf per day of natural gas, 204 mmcf per day of ethane gas, 106,000 barrels per day of ethane liquid, 34,000 barrels per day of lpg transmission and 80,000 barrels of lpg storage. lng. sempra mexico operates its eca lng regasification terminal on land it owns in baja california, mexico. the eca lng regasification terminal is capable of processing 1 bcf of natural gas per day and generates revenues from reservation and usage fees under terminal capacity agreements and nitrogen injection service agreements with shell and gazprom, expiring in 2028, that permit them, together, to use one-half of the terminal's capacity. in connection with sempra lng &amp; midstream's lng purchase agreement with tangguh psc, sempra mexico purchases from sempra lng &amp; midstream the lng delivered to eca by tangguh psc. sempra mexico uses the natural gas produced from this lng and from natural gas purchased in the market or through sempra lng &amp; midstream's marketing operations to supply a contract for the sale of natural gas to mexico's national electric company, the cfe, at prices that are based on the socal border index. if lng volumes received from tangguh psc are not sufficient to satisfy the commitment to the cfe, sempra mexico may purchase natural gas from sempra lng &amp; midstream's natural gas marketing operations. the lng business is impacted by worldwide lng market prices. high lng prices in markets outside the market in which ienova's lng terminal operates have resulted and could continue to result in lower than expected deliveries of lng cargoes to the eca lng terminal from third parties under existing supply agreements, which could increase costs if ienova is instead required to obtain lng in the open market at prevailing prices. any inability to obtain expected lng cargoes could also impact ienova's ability to maintain the minimum level of lng required to keep the eca lng terminal in operation at the proper temperature. lng market prices also affect ienova's lng marketing operations, through which ienova must purchase natural gas in the international market to meet its contractual obligations to deliver natural gas to customers, but which could have an adverse impact on its earnings, which may be mitigated in part by the indemnity payments discussed below. sempra mexico's lng marketing operations sell natural gas to the cfe and other customers under supply agreements. sempra mexico recognizes the revenue from the sale of natural gas upon transfer of the natural gas via pipelines to the customers at the agreed upon delivery points, and in the case of the cfe, at its thermoelectric power plants. sempra lng &amp; midstream has an agreement with sempra mexico to supply lng to the eca lng terminal. although the lng purchase agreement specifies a number of cargoes to be delivered annually, actual cargoes delivered have been significantly lower than the maximum specified under the agreement. as a result, sempra lng &amp; midstream is contractually required to make monthly indemnity payments to sempra mexico for failure to deliver the contracted lng. the revenues from the indemnity payments, along with an amount for profit sharing, allow sempra mexico to recover the costs of operating the eca lng terminal. natural gas distribution. sempra mexico's natural gas distribution utility, ecogas, operates in three separate distribution zones in mexico with approximately 2,394 miles of pipeline, and had approximately 120,000 customer meters (serving more than 400,000 residential, commercial and industrial consumers) with sales volume of approximately 81 mmcf per day in 2017. ecogas relies on affiliates, sempra lng &amp; midstream and socalgas, for the supply and transportation of natural gas that it distributes to its customers. if these affiliates fail to perform and ienova is unable to obtain supplies of natural gas from alternate sources, ienova could lose customers and sales volume and could also be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility. ecogas had been entitled to a 12-year period of exclusivity with respect to each of its three distribution zones in mexicali, chihuahua and la laguna-durango. as the last of these exclusivity periods expired in 2011, ecogas could face competition from other distributors of natural gas in all of these distribution zones as other distributors of natural gas are now legally permitted to build natural gas distribution systems and compete with ecogas for customers. power business wind power generation. sempra mexico develops, invests in and operates renewable energy generation facilities that have long-term ppas to sell the electricity they generate to its customers, which are generally load serving entities, and industrial and other customers. load serving entities sell electric service to their end-users and wholesale customers immediately upon receipt of 23 our power delivery, while industrial and other customers consume the electricity to run their facilities . in 2017, sempra mexico had contracted capacity of 330 mw for its ownership share of fully operating wind energy generation facilities. natural gas-fired generation. tdm is a 625-mw natural gas-fired power plant located in mexicali, baja california, mexico that generates revenue from selling electricity and/or resource adequacy to the caiso and to governmental, public utility and wholesale power marketing entities. it also has an ema with sempra lng &amp; midstream for energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. under the ema, tdm pays fees to sempra lng &amp; midstream for these revenue-generating services. tdm also purchases fuel from sempra lng &amp; midstream. sempra mexico records revenue for the sale of power generated by tdm, and records cost of sales for the purchases of natural gas and energy management services provided by sempra lng &amp; midstream. in february 2016, management approved a plan to market and sell tdm. as a result, we stopped depreciating the plant and classified the plant as held for sale. we continue to actively pursue the sale of tdm, which we expect to be completed in 2018. we discuss tdm further in notes 3 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. tdm competes daily with other generating plants that supply power into the california electricity market. several of the wholesale markets supplied by merchant power plants have experienced significant pricing declines due to excess supply. ienova manages commodity price risk at tdm by optimizing a mix of forward on-peak energy sales, daily and hourly spot market sales of capacity, energy and ancillary services, and longer-term structured transactions, as well as avoiding short positions. demand and competition the overall demand for natural gas distribution services increases during the winter months. conversely, in the power business, the overall demand for electricity is greater during the summer months. ienova competes with mexican and foreign companies for certain new energy infrastructure projects in mexico and some of its competitors (including but not limited to, public or state-operated companies, their subsidiaries and affiliates) may have better access to capital and greater financial and other resources, which could give them a competitive advantage in bidding for such projects. we discuss sempra mexico's demand and competition further below. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for sempra mexico include sales volume, plant or facility availability, capacity utilization and, for its distribution operations, customer count and consumption. additional noncash performance indicators include obtaining and completing (on time and on budget) major projects, compliance with reliability and regulatory standards, and goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory performance. sempra renewables sempra renewables develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in, solar and wind energy generation facilities in the u.s. that have long-term ppas to sell the electricity and the related green energy attributes they generate to its customers, which are generally load serving entities. load serving entities sell electric service to their end-users and wholesale customers immediately upon receipt of our power delivery. the majority of sempra renewables' wind farm assets earn ptcs based on the number of megawatt hours of electricity they generate. a ptc is a federal subsidy that provides an income tax incentive to wind-energy producers at a flat rate for generating clean energy. because ptcs last for ten years after project completion, any wind turbine that is under construction before the end of 2019 will earn a full decade of ptcs at phased-out rates beginning with construction starting in 2017 through 2019. for each of the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , ptcs represented a large portion of our wind farm earnings, often exceeding earnings from operations. certain of sempra renewables' wind and solar power facilities are held by limited liability companies whose members include financial institutions. these financial institutions are noncontrolling tax equity investors to which earnings, tax attributes and cash flows are allocated in accordance with the respective limited liability company agreements. we discuss these tax equity arrangements in variable interest entities and in noncontrolling interests in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 24 the following table provides information about the sempra renewables wind and solar energy generation facilities that were operational as of december 31, 2017 . the generating capacity of these facilities is fully contracted under long-term ppas for the periods indicated in the table. sempra renewables operating facilities name generating capacity (mw) ppa term in years first in service (1) location wholly owned facility: copper mountain solar 1 58 20 2008 boulder city, nevada total 58 tax equity-owned facilities (2) : apple blossom wind 100 15 2017 huron county, michigan black oak getty wind 78 20 2016 stearns county, minnesota copper mountain solar 4 94 20 2016 boulder city, nevada great valley solar portfolio (3) 100 15 to 20 2017 fresno county, california mesquite solar 2 100 20 2016 maricopa county, arizona mesquite solar 3 150 25 2016 maricopa county, arizona total 622 jointly owned facilities (4) : auwahi wind 11 20 2012 maui, hawaii broken bow 2 wind 38 25 2014 custer county, nebraska cedar creek 2 wind 125 25 2011 new raymer, colorado flat ridge 2 wind 235 20 and 25 2012 wichita, kansas fowler ridge 2 wind 100 20 2009 benton county, indiana mehoopany wind 71 20 2012 wyoming county, pennsylvania total wind 580 california solar partnership 55 25 2013 tulare and kings counties, california copper mountain solar 2 75 25 2012 boulder city, nevada copper mountain solar 3 125 20 2014 boulder city, nevada mesquite solar 1 75 20 2011 maricopa county, arizona total solar 330 total mw in operation 1,590 (1) if placed in service in phases, indicates the year the first phase went into service. (2) represents facilities that we own through tax equity arrangements. we consolidate these entities and report noncontrolling interests. (3) total expected generating capacity for great valley solar is 200 mw, of which three phases totaling 100 mw went into service in 2017; we expect the remaining 100-mw phase to be in service in the first half of 2018. (4) sempra renewables has a 50-percent interest in each of these facilities and accounts for them as equity method investments. the generating capacity shown herein represents sempra renewables' share only. demand and competition generation from sempra mexico's and sempra renewables' renewable energy assets is susceptible to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, inclement weather and hours of sunlight. sempra renewables' future performance and the demand for renewable energy are impacted by various market factors, most notably state mandated requirements to deliver a portion of total energy load from renewable energy sources. the rules governing these requirements in california are generally known as the rps program. in california, certification of a generation project by the cec as an err allows the purchase of output from such generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the rps program requirements, if such purchase meets the provisions of california sb x1-2. the rps program may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by sempra renewables and sempra mexico, particularly the demand from california's utilities. we expect to receive err certification for all our renewable facilities operating in and/or providing power to california, including those at sempra mexico, as they become operational. additionally, the phase out or extension of u.s. federal income tax incentives, primarily itcs and ptcs, could significantly impact future renewable energy resource availability and investment decisions. certain provisions of the tcja could reduce the value of tax benefits generated by our renewable projects and therefore make investments less attractive, as well as reducing the size of the tax equity financing market, which could lead to increased financing costs. these impacts may be offset by a lower overall federal tax rate. sempra renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity through its development of and investments in wind and solar power generation facilities. sempra renewables also competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, and other energy service companies for sales of non- 25 contracted renewable energy. the number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. also, regulatory initiatives designed to enhance energy consumption from renewable resources for regulated utility companies may increase competition from these types of institutions. these utilities may have a cost of capital that differs from most independent renewable power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate mechanisms. this allows them to build, buy and upgrade renewable generation projects without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. because sempra mexico sells the power that it generates at its energ a sierra ju rez wind power generation facility into california, it is also impacted by these competitive factors. our renewable energy competitors include, among others: edf energy midamerican energy first solar nextera energy resources invenergy southern company key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for sempra renewables include capacity factors, plant availability and sales volume at our renewable energy facilities. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations, and compliance with reliability standards. sempra lng &amp; midstream sempra lng &amp; midstream develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in, lng and natural gas midstream assets and operations in alabama, louisiana, mississippi and texas, including: a terminal in the u.s. for the import and export of lng and sale of natural gas natural gas pipelines and storage facilities marketing operations lng sempra lng &amp; midstream and three project partners hold interests in the cameron lng jv for the development, construction and operation of a three-train natural gas liquefaction export facility at the existing cameron lng, llc regasification terminal in hackberry, louisiana, a project developed and permitted by sempra lng &amp; midstream. beginning from the october 1, 2014 joint venture effective date, cameron lng, llc was no longer wholly owned, and sempra lng &amp; midstream began accounting for its 50.2-percent equity interest in the joint venture under the equity method. the joint venture began construction in the second half of 2014 on the natural gas liquefaction export facility using the existing regasification infrastructure contributed by sempra lng &amp; midstream. the joint venture has authorization to export lng to both fta and non-fta countries. the existing regasification terminal is capable of processing 1.5 bcf of natural gas per day, and from 2009 through 2017, it generated revenue under a terminal services agreement for approximately 3.75 bcf of natural gas storage and associated send-out rights of approximately 600 mmcf of natural gas per day. the agreement allowed the customer to pay capacity reservation and usage fees to use the facilities to receive, store and regasify the customer's lng. in december 2017, cameron lng jv terminated the regasification terminal services agreement, as progress on the construction of the three-train liquefaction project requires that certain terminal infrastructure be taken offline. the revenues associated with the terminal services agreement have been included in the equity earnings generated from cameron lng jv. the three liquefaction trains are designed to a nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with engie s.a. and affiliates of mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., which subscribe the full nameplate capacity of three trains at the facility. in addition, cameron lng jv is working on the development of up to two additional trains. we discuss cameron lng jv in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and the construction of the first three trains and the potential for an additional two trains in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. sempra energy is also taking steps to explore the development of additional lng export facilities at sempra lng &amp; midstream's port arthur, texas property and sempra mexico's eca regasification facility. we discuss these opportunities in item 7. 26 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. demand and competition. technological advances associated with shale gas and tight oil production have significantly reduced the need for north american lng import facilities and increased interest in liquefaction and export opportunities. at current forward gas prices, u.s. gulf coast liquefaction is among the most price competitive potential lng supply in the world. brownfield liquefaction is particularly price competitive, resulting from many factors, including: high levels of developed and undeveloped north american unconventional natural gas and tight oil resources relative to domestic consumption levels; increasing gas and oil drilling productivity and decreasing unit costs of gas production; low breakeven prices of marginal north american unconventional gas production; proximity to ample existing gas transmission pipeline and underground gas storage capacity; and existing lng tankage and berths. global lng competition may limit u.s. lng exports, as international liquefaction projects attempt to match u.s. gulf coast lng production costs and customer contractual rights such as volume and destination flexibility. host governments for international liquefaction projects are altering fiscal and tax regimes in an effort to make projects in their jurisdictions competitive relative to u.s. projects; however, sustained low oil prices may cause some of the international projects to become unfeasible due to their lng price formulas' link to oil prices. it is expected that u.s. lng exports will increase competition for current and future global natural gas demand, and thereby facilitate development of a global commodity market for natural gas and lng. our lng liquefaction business' major domestic and international competitors will include, among others, the following companies and their related lng affiliates: bp petronas cheniere energy qatar petroleum chevron royal dutch shell conocophillips total exxonmobil woodside kinder morgan additionally, our cameron lng jv partners, affiliates of engie s.a., mitsubishi corporation (through a related company jointly established with nippon yusen kabushiki kaisha), and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., compete globally to market and sell lng to end users, including gas and electric utilities located in lng importing countries around the world. by providing liquefaction services, cameron lng jv will compete indirectly with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the global lng market. in addition to the u.s., these competitors are located in the middle east, southeast asia, africa, south america, australia and europe. midstream sempra lng &amp; midstream has 42 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity and a development project as follows: bay gas is a facility located 40 miles north of mobile, alabama, that provides underground storage (20 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity) and delivery of natural gas. sempra lng &amp; midstream owns approximately 91 percent of the facility. it is the easternmost salt dome storage facility on the gulf coast, with direct service to the florida market and markets across the southeast, mid-atlantic and northeast regions. mississippi hub is an underground salt dome with 22 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity located 45 miles southeast of jackson, mississippi. it has access to natural gas from shale basins of east texas and louisiana, traditional gulf coast supplies and lng, with multiple interconnections to serve the southeast and northeast regions. liberty gas storage, llc owns a 77-percent interest in la storage, a salt cavern development project in cameron parish, louisiana, and proliance transportation llc owns the remaining 23 percent. the project's location provides access to several lng facilities in the area and could be positioned to support lng export from various liquefaction terminals. future development will require approval of a new construction permit by the ferc, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not currently contracted. demand and competition. the natural gas storage business depends on market forecasts of seasonal natural gas prices, and cash provided from operating activities generally is greater during and immediately following the winter heating months. as is 27 prevalent in the industry, sempra lng &amp; midstream customers usually inject natural gas into storage during the summer months (april through october) and usually withdraw natural gas from storage during the winter months (november through march) when customer demand is higher. within their respective market areas, sempra lng &amp; midstream's and sempra mexico's pipeline businesses and sempra lng &amp; midstream's storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated storage facilities and pipelines. they compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. sempra lng &amp; midstream's competitors include, among others: boardwalk pipeline partners macquarie infrastructure partners cardinal gas storage partners plains all american pipeline columbia energy southern company gas enbridge tellurian energy transfer partners transcanada enterprise products partners the williams companies kinder morgan sempra mexico's competitors include, among others: carso energy fermaca enagas kinder morgan engie s.a. transcanada marketing operations sempra lng &amp; midstream provides natural gas marketing, trading and risk management services through the utilization and optimization of contracted natural gas supply, transportation and storage capacity, as well as optimizing its assets in the short-term services market. additionally, it sells electricity under short-term and long-term contracts and into the spot market and other competitive markets. sempra lng &amp; midstream's marketing operations have an lng purchase agreement with tangguh psc for the supply of the equivalent of 500 mmcf of natural gas per day from tangguh psc's indonesian liquefaction facility with delivery to sempra mexico's eca lng receipt terminal at a price based on the socal border index for natural gas. the lng purchase agreement allows tangguh psc to divert deliveries to other global markets in exchange for cash differential payments to sempra lng &amp; midstream. sempra lng &amp; midstream also may enter into short-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at the terminal for sale to other parties. in addition to lng, if deliveries of lng cargoes are not sufficient, sempra lng &amp; midstream is also contracted to sell natural gas to sempra mexico that allows sempra mexico to satisfy its obligation under supply agreements with the cfe and other customers, and to supply the tdm power plant. these revenues are adjusted for indemnity payments and profit sharing, as discussed in sempra mexico gas business lng above. sempra lng &amp; midstream also has an ema with sempra mexico to provide energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to sempra mexico's tdm power plant to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. we discuss the ema in sempra mexico power business natural gas-fired generation above. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators at sempra lng &amp; midstream include natural gas sales volume, plant or facility availability and capacity utilization. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory compliance, and on-time and on-budget completion of development projects. regulation california state utility regulation the california utilities are principally regulated at the state level by the cpuc, the cec and the carb . 28 the cpuc: consists of five commissioners appointed by the governor of california for staggered, six-year terms; regulates sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in u.s. utility regulation; has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric generation, transmission and distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in california; conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines, and conducts investigations into various matters, such as safety, deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies; and regulates the interactions and transactions of the california utilities with sempra energy and its other affiliates. the cpuc also oversees and regulates new products and services, including solar and wind energy, bioenergy, alternative energy storage and other forms of renewable energy. in addition, the cpuc's safety and enforcement role includes inspections, investigations and penalty and citation processes for safety violations. the cec publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories. based on these forecasts, the cec: determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs; sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects; promotes energy conservation programs to reduce demand within the state of california for electricity and natural gas; maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within california. the cec conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in california. this forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. this analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the california utilities' long-term investment decisions. the state of california requires certain california electric retail sellers, including sdg&amp;e, to deliver a percentage of their retail energy sales from renewable energy sources. the rules governing this requirement, administered by both the cpuc and the cec, are generally known as the rps program. we discuss this requirement as it applies to sdg&amp;e in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. california ab 32, the california global warming solutions act of 2006, assigns responsibility to carb for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing ghg emissions. the bill requires carb to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective ghg emission reductions, including a statewide ghg emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of ghg emissions. carb is a department within the california environmental protection agency, an organization that reports directly to the governor's office in the executive branch of california state government. sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico are also subject to the rules and regulations of carb. we provide further discussion of ghg allowances and emissions in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the operation and maintenance of socalgas' natural gas storage facilities are regulated by doggr, as well as various other state and local agencies. we provide further discussion of doggr's increased regulations in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. u.s. utility regulation the california utilities are also regulated at the federal level by the ferc, the nrc, the epa, the doe and the dot. the ferc regulates the california utilities' interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the application of the uniform systems of accounts. in the case of sdg&amp;e, the ferc also regulates the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale. the energy policy act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. the ferc approved the california ious transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the caiso in 1998. the nrc oversees the licensing, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities in the u.s., including songs, in which sdg&amp;e owns a 20-percent interest and which has been permanently retired since 2013. nrc and various state regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. we provide further discussion of songs matters, including the closure and pending decommissioning of the facility, in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 29 the dot, through phmsa, has established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable to the california utilities' natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines. the dot has certified the cpuc to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in california. the phmsa also is in the process of promulgating regulations applicable to the california utilities' natural gas storage facilities. see other u.s. regulation below and further discussion in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. other state and local regulation within the u.s. the scaqmd is the air pollution control agency responsible for regulating stationary sources of air pollution in the south coast air basin in southern california. the district's territory covers all of orange county and the urban portions of los angeles, san bernardino and riverside counties. socalgas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and the 223 cities in its service territory. these franchises allow socalgas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2018 to 2062. sdg&amp;e has electric franchises with the two counties and the 27 cities in or adjoining its electric service territory; and natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory. these franchises allow sdg&amp;e to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. some natural gas and some electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range from 2021 to 2035. other u.s. regulation the ferc regulates certain sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream assets pursuant to the federal power act and natural gas act, which provide for ferc jurisdiction over, among other things, sales of wholesale power in interstate commerce, transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting of lng terminals. in addition, certain sempra renewables power generation assets are required under the federal power act to comply with reliability standards developed by the north american electric reliability corporation. bay gas' natural gas storage operations are also regulated by the alabama public service commission. sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment in cameron lng jv is subject to regulations of the doe regarding the export of lng. the ferc may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the ferc to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. ferc-regulated rates at the following businesses are sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream: market-based for wholesale electricity sales sempra lng &amp; midstream: cost-based for the transportation of natural gas sempra lng &amp; midstream: market-based for the storage of natural gas, as well as the purchase and sale of lng and natural gas the california utilities, sempra lng &amp; midstream and businesses that sempra lng &amp; midstream invests in are subject to the dot rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety. phmsa, acting through the office of pipeline safety, is responsible for administering the dot's national regulatory program to assure the safe transportation of natural gas, petroleum and other hazardous materials by pipelines, including pipelines associated with natural gas storage, and develops regulations and other approaches to risk management to assure safety in design, construction, testing, operation, maintenance, and emergency response of pipeline facilities. the california utilities, sempra lng &amp; midstream, sempra renewables and sempra mexico are also subject to regulation by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission. foreign regulation sempra south american utilities has two utilities in south america that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate. these utilities serve primarily regulated customers, and their revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the cne in chile and the osinergmin in peru, as we discuss below in ratemaking mechanisms sempra south american utilities. operations and projects in our sempra mexico segment are subject to regulation by the cre, the mexican safety, energy and environment agency (agencia de seguridad, energ a y ambiente), the mexican secretary of energy (secretar a de energ a) and other labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in mexico. 30 licenses and permits the california utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, including electric generation and natural gas storage facilities, some of which may require periodic renewal. sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their electric and natural gas distribution, generation and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. the respective energy ministries in chile or peru granted the concessions to operate chilquinta energ a's and luz del sur's distribution operations for indefinite terms, not requiring renewal. the permits for generation, transportation, storage and distribution operations at sempra mexico are generally for 30-year terms, with options for renewal under certain regulatory conditions. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream obtain licenses and permits for the construction, operation and expansion of lng facilities, and the import and export of lng and natural gas. sempra mexico also obtains licenses and permits for the construction and operation of terminals for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. sempra renewables obtains permits, authorizations and licenses for the construction and operation of power generation facilities, and for the wholesale distribution of electricity. sempra lng &amp; midstream obtains permits, authorizations and licenses for the construction and operation of natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, and in connection with participation in the wholesale electricity market. most of the permits and licenses associated with construction and operations within the sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream businesses are for periods generally in alignment with the construction cycle or life of the asset and in many cases are greater than 20 years. ratemaking mechanisms california utilities general rate case proceedings. a cpuc grc proceeding is designed to set sufficient base rates to allow the california utilities to recover their reasonable cost of operations and maintenance and to provide the opportunity to realize their authorized rates of return on their investment. the proceeding generally establishes the test year revenue requirements, which authorizes how much the california utilities can collect from their customers, and provides for attrition, or annual increases in revenue requirements, for each year following the test year. the cpuc generally conducts a grc every three years. cost of capital proceedings. a cpuc cost of capital proceeding determines a utility's authorized capital structure and authorized return on rate base, which is a weighted-average of the authorized returns on debt, preferred stock, and common equity (referred to as return on equity or roe), weighted on a basis consistent with the authorized capital structure. the authorized return on rate base approved by the cpuc is the rate that the california utilities use to establish customer rates to recover costs incurred to finance investments in cpuc-regulated electric distribution and generation, as well as natural gas distribution and transmission assets. a cost of capital proceeding also addresses the automatic ccm, which applies market-based benchmarks to determine whether an adjustment to the authorized return on rate base is required during the interim years between cost of capital proceedings. the ccm did not operate in 2017, but could operate in 2018 to change the rates effective for january 1, 2019. the market-based benchmark for sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' ccm is the 12-month average monthly a-rated utility bond index, as published by moody's for the 12-month period from october 1st through september 30th (ccm period) of each calculation year. remaining unchanged from the last cost of capital proceeding, sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' ccm benchmark rate was set at 4.24 percent. if at the end of the ccm period the monthly average benchmark rate falls outside of the established range of 3.24 percent to 5.24 percent, sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' authorized roe would be adjusted, upward or downward, by one-half of the difference between the 12-month average and the benchmark rate. in addition, the authorized recovery rate for sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' cost of debt and preferred stock would be adjusted to their respective actual weighted-average costs, with no change to the authorized capital structure. all three adjustments with the new rate would become effective on january 1st of the following year in which the benchmark range was exceeded. the ccm only applies during the intervening years between scheduled cost of capital proceedings. in the year the cost of capital proceeding is scheduled, the cost of capital proceeding takes precedence over the ccm and will set new rates for the following year . the next cost of capital proceeding is scheduled to be filed in april 2019 for a january 1, 2020 implementation. we also discuss the cost of capital and ccm in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 31 transmission rate cases. sdg&amp;e files separately with the ferc for its authorized roe on ferc-regulated electric transmission operations and assets. the to4 settlement agreement, approved by the ferc in may 2014 and in effect through december 31, 2018, established a 10.05 percent roe. the settlement also established 1) a process whereby rates are determined using a base period of historical costs and a forecast of capital investments and 2) a true-up period similar to balancing account treatment that is designed to provide sdg&amp;e earnings of no more and no less than its actual cost of service including its authorized return on investment. sdg&amp;e makes annual information filings on december 1 of each year to update rates for the following calendar year. sdg&amp;e also has the right to file for any roe incentives that might apply under ferc rules. sdg&amp;e's debt-to-equity ratio will be set annually based on the actual ratio at the end of each year. incentive mechanisms. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california ious, under which the california utilities have earnings potential above authorized cpuc base operating margin if they achieve or exceed specific performance and operating goals. generally, for performance-based awards, if performance is above or below specific benchmarks, the utility is eligible for financial awards or subject to financial penalties. sdg&amp;e has incentive mechanisms associated with: operational incentives (electric reliability) energy efficiency socalgas has incentive mechanisms associated with: energy efficiency natural gas procurement unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services other cost-based recovery. the cpuc authorizes the california utilities to collect additional revenue requirements to recover costs that they have been authorized to pass on to customers, including the costs to purchase electricity and natural gas and those associated with administering public purpose, demand response, and customer energy efficiency programs. actual costs are recovered as the commodity or service is delivered or, to the extent actual amounts vary from forecasts, generally recovered or refunded within a subsequent period based on the nature of the account. overcollections and undercollections represent differences between cash collected in current rates and amounts due for specified components (including costs, depreciation and return on rate base) probable of recovery from ratepayers. the lagging aspect of overcollections and undercollections impacts cash flows until these respective amounts are trued up with collections from customers. because changes in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' cost of electricity and/or natural gas is substantially recovered in rates through a balancing account mechanism, changes in these costs are offset in revenues, and therefore do not impact earnings. we also discuss regulatory matters in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra south american utilities chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, our electric distribution utilities in south america, recognize revenues based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in their respective countries based on an efficient model distribution company defined by those agencies. the tariffs are based on a model and are intended to cover the costs of the model company. because the tariffs are not based on the costs of the specific utility, they may not result in full cost recovery. the tariffs are designed to provide for a pass-through to customers of transmission and energy charges, recovery of reasonable operating and administrative costs, incentives to reduce costs and make needed capital investments and a regulated rate of return on the distributor's regulated asset base. chilquinta energ a's revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the cne. the cne's review process for authorized distribution and transmission rates generally remains in effect for a period of four years. the cne reviews rates for four-year periods related to distribution and transmission separately on an alternating basis every two years. luz del sur's revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the osinergmin. the components of tariffs for luz del sur are reviewed and adjusted every four years. sempra mexico ecogas' revenues are derived from service and distribution fees charged to its customers in pesos. the price ecogas pays to purchase natural gas, which is based on international price indices, is passed through directly to its customers. the service and distribution fees charged by ecogas are regulated by the cre, which performs a review of rates every five years and monitors prices charged to end-users. the tariffs operate under a return-on-asset-base model. in the annual tariff adjustment, rates are adjusted to account for inflation or fluctuations in exchange rates, and inflation indexing includes separate u.s. and mexican cost components, so that u.s. costs can be included in the final distribution rates. 32 environmental matters we discuss environmental issues affecting us in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions. hazardous substances the cpuc's hazardous waste collaborative mechanism allows california's ious to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain superfund sites. this mechanism permits the california utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. in addition, the california utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates. we record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. in addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets. air and water quality the electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air quality and ghg standards, such as those established by the carb and scaqmd. the california utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards. we discuss ghg standards and credits further in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss environmental matters concerning socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. other matters executive officers of the registrants 33 executive officers of sempra energy name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position debra l. reed 61 chairman december 2012 to present chief executive officer june 2011 to present president march 2017 to present joseph a. householder 62 corporate group president - infrastructure businesses january 2017 to present executive vice president and chief financial officer october 2011 to december 2016 steven d. davis (2) 62 corporate group president - utilities january 2017 to present executive vice president - external affairs and corporate strategy september 2015 to december 2016 president and chief operating officer, sdg&amp;e january 2014 to september 2015 senior vice president - external affairs march 2012 to december 2013 j. walker martin 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer january 2017 to present chairman, sdg&amp;e november 2015 to december 2016 president, sdg&amp;e october 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, sdg&amp;e january 2014 to december 2016 president and chief executive officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power october 2011 to december 2013 martha b. wyrsch 60 executive vice president and general counsel september 2013 to present dennis v. arriola 57 executive vice president - corporate strategy and external affairs january 2017 to present chairman, socalgas november 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, socalgas march 2014 to december 2016 president, socalgas august 2012 to september 2016 chief operating officer, socalgas august 2012 to january 2014 trevor i. mihalik 51 senior vice president december 2013 to present controller and chief accounting officer july 2012 to present g. joyce rowland 63 senior vice president, chief human resources officer and chief administrative officer september 2014 to present senior vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion may 2010 to september 2014 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2018. (2) mr. davis will retire as of march 1, 2018. 34 executive officers of sdg&amp;e name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position scott d. drury 52 president january 2017 to present chief energy supply officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion march 2011 to june 2015 j. chris baker (2) 58 chief information officer june 2015 to present senior vice president and chief information technology officer january 2014 to june 2015 senior vice president - strategic planning and technology september 2012 to january 2014 lee schavrien (3) 63 chief regulatory officer march 2017 to present chief administrative officer june 2015 to march 2017 senior vice president of regulatory affairs and operations support february 2015 to june 2015 senior vice president - finance, regulatory and legislative affairs april 2010 to february 2015 caroline a. winn 54 chief operating officer january 2017 to present chief energy delivery officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - customer services april 2010 to june 2015 bruce a. folkmann 50 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer march 2015 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power july 2013 to march 2015 vice president and controller, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power august 2012 to september 2013 randall l. clark 48 chief human resources and administrative officer march 2017 to present vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion october 2015 to march 2017 vice president - human resources services, sempra energy september 2014 to october 2015 vice president - compliance and governance, sempra energy january 2014 to september 2014 vice president - corporate responsibility, sempra energy march 2012 to january 2014 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2018. (2) mr. baker will retire as of may 1, 2018. (3) mr. schavrien will retire as of april 1, 2018. 35 executive officers of socalgas name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position patricia k. wagner 55 chief executive officer january 2017 to present executive vice president, sempra energy september 2016 to december 2016 president and chief executive officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power january 2014 to september 2016 vice president of audit services, sempra energy february 2012 to december 2013 j. bret lane 58 president september 2016 to present chief operating officer january 2014 to present senior vice president - gas operations and system integrity, sdg&amp;e and socalgas august 2012 to january 2014 j. chris baker (2) 58 chief information officer june 2015 to present senior vice president and chief information technology officer january 2014 to june 2015 senior vice president - strategic planning and technology september 2012 to january 2014 lee schavrien (3) 63 chief regulatory officer march 2017 to present chief administrative officer june 2015 to march 2017 senior vice president of regulatory affairs and operations support february 2015 to june 2015 senior vice president - finance, regulatory and legislative affairs april 2010 to february 2015 sharon l. tomkins 52 vice president and general counsel august 2014 to present assistant general counsel april 2010 to august 2014 bruce a. folkmann 50 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer march 2015 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power july 2013 to march 2015 vice president and controller, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power august 2012 to september 2013 hal snyder (4) 57 chief human resources and administrative officer march 2017 to present vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion november 2012 to march 2017 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2018. (2) mr. baker will retire as of may 1, 2018. (3) mr. schavrien will retire as of april 1, 2018. (4) mr. snyder will retire as of june 1, 2018. employees of the registrants the table below shows the number of employees for each of our registrants at december 31, 2017. employees represented by labor unions are covered under various collective bargaining agreements that generally cover wages, benefits, working conditions, and other terms and conditions of employment. number of employees number of employees % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements expiring within one year sempra energy consolidated (1) 16,046 43 % 33 % sdg&amp;e (1) 4,116 30 % % socalgas 7,546 61 % 61 % (1) excludes employees of variable interest entities as defined by u.s. gaap. company websites 36 company website addresses are sempra energy www.sempra.com sdg&amp;e www.sdge.com socalgas www.socalgas.com we make available free of charge on the sempra energy website, and for sdg&amp;e and socalgas, via a hyperlink on their websites, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the charters of the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of the sempra energy board of directors, sempra energy's corporate governance guidelines, and sempra energy's code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers (which also applies to directors and officers of sdg&amp;e and socalgas) are posted on sempra energy's website. printed copies of these materials may be obtained by writing to our corporate secretary at sempra energy, 488 8 th avenue, san diego, ca 92101-7123. the sec also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information may also be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at certified@sec.gov, or by writing the sec's public reference room, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the information on the websites of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas is not part of this report or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec, and is not incorporated herein by reference. item 1a. risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in, or attached as an exhibit to, this annual report on form 10-k, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us, or may, could or will materially adversely affect us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will, as the case may be, have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities or those of our subsidiaries. risks related to sempra energy sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and joint ventures and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries and joint ventures. we are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are owned by our subsidiaries. our ability to pay dividends and to meet our debt and other obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from our subsidiaries and joint ventures and other entities in which we have invested and, in the short term, our ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from our subsidiaries and joint ventures and other entities in which we have invested depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, common and preferred stock dividends, and debt or other obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans or distributions to us, whether to enable us to pay principal and interest on our debt securities, our other obligations or dividends on our common stock or our preferred stock, and could be precluded from paying any such dividends or making any such loans or distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. 37 a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. as a result of the tcja enacted in december 2017, the cumulative undistributed earnings of our foreign entities were deemed repatriated and subjected to a one-time u.s. federal income tax. based on current assumptions, when we repatriate these foreign earnings to the u.s. in 2018 or later, they will not be subject to additional u.s. federal income taxes. however, some foreign jurisdictions and u.s. states impose taxes on dividends repatriated to their u.s. parent, which will reduce the cash available to us. the tcja may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, and our credit ratings. the tcja has significantly changed the u.s. internal revenue code, including taxation of u.s. corporations by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, altering the expensing of capital expenditures, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign entities at the time of enactment, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. the legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the u.s. department of the treasury, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of this legislation will be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. we recorded a noncash income tax expense of $870 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 for the effects of the enactment of the tcja. we recorded the effects using our best estimates and the information available to us through the date the financial statements were issued. however, our analysis of this legislation is ongoing, and the effects recorded are provisional. as permitted by and in accordance with guidance issued by the sec, we may adjust our provisional estimates in reporting periods throughout 2018 as we complete our analysis and as more information becomes available, which could result in a material change in our provisional estimates. we discuss the events and information that may result in adjustments to our provisional estimates in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, credit rating agencies, the ferc or state public utility commissions may respond to the tcja, we do expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, will be negatively impacted as a result of an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our domestic utility subsidiaries due to the decrease in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100-percent expensing of capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will reduce any potential adverse impact from these provisions of the tcja. in addition, although we are not currently expecting the deductibility of our interest costs to affect future earnings based on our method of allocation across our businesses, the interest deduction limitation under the tcja is subject to potential additional guidance or interpretation from the u.s. department of the treasury, and there can be no assurance that any such additional guidance will not impact our current assessment. it is also uncertain how credit rating agencies will treat the impacts of this legislation in their credit rating metrics, and whether additional avenues will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of this legislation. we believe that these strategies, to the extent available and if successfully applied, could lessen the negative impacts on certain credit metrics, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, although there can be no assurance in this regard. if we are unable to successfully take actions to manage the potentially adverse impacts of the tcja, or if additional interpretations, regulations, amendments or technical corrections exacerbate any adverse impacts of the legislation, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, and could result in credit rating agencies placing our credit ratings on negative outlook or downgrading our credit ratings. any such actions by credit rating agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us to issue debt securities and certain other types of financing and could increase borrowing costs under our credit facilities. we discuss the effects of the tcja further in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. on december 20, 2017, moody's placed sempra energy's credit ratings on negative outlook. moody's indicated that this action was triggered by us having entered into a comprehensive stipulation with the staff of the puct and other key stakeholders with 38 respect to our joint application with oncor to the puct for regulatory approval of the merger, which moody's described as a significant milestone in our attaining regulatory approval for the merger. in addition, moody's indicated that a downgrade of our credit ratings over the 12 to 18 months after december 20, 2017 is likely if they anticipate that our consolidated credit metrics will remain weak, relative to our current credit rating, beyond 2019, specifically if our consolidated ratio of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital to debt remains below 18 percent (assuming successful completion of the merger) for an extended period of time. moody's also indicated that a downgrade could also be considered if there is a further delay in the completion of our cameron lng project. s&amp;p has indicated that it could downgrade its rating of sempra energy's senior unsecured debt securities within 12 months following october 9, 2017 if we do not complete the merger or if the aggregate indebtedness of our subsidiaries continues to exceed 50 percent of our consolidated debt. moody's also issued a public comment on december 20, 2017 regarding recent wildfires in northern california and ventura county, california indicating that the december 6, 2017 decision issued by the cpuc denying sdg&amp;e's request to recover approximately $379 million of pretax costs associated with the 2007 wildfires (based on the cpuc's finding that sdg&amp;e did not reasonably operate the facilities involved in the wildfires) is credit negative for sdg&amp;e, for sempra energy and for other california utilities seeking to recover costs from wildfires. we discuss the 2007 wildfires further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. moody's further indicated that it may reassess its view of the california regulatory framework if it determines that the credit supportiveness of california's regulatory environment has weakened (including as a result of the cpuc's discretion in denying recovery of wildfire costs), which would also be credit negative and could lead to a downgrade of the credit ratings of california ious, including sdg&amp;e, or those ratings being placed on negative outlook. also, as described in the preceding risk factor, the tcja could materially adversely affect our credit ratings. the negative outlook by moody's, any downgrade of our credit ratings by s&amp;p, fitch ratings or moody's, or any additional negative outlook on our credit ratings may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, and could make it more costly for us to issue debt securities, to borrow under our credit facilities and to raise certain other types of financing. as a result, any additional negative outlook on sempra energy, or any downgrade of sempra energy's credit ratings by s&amp;p, fitch ratings or moody's could be a credit negative for sdg&amp;e or socalgas, or both, and result in a downgrade of the credit ratings of sdg&amp;e or socalgas, or both. the negative outlook or downgrade of sempra energy's credit ratings by s&amp;p, fitch ratings or moody's, or any additional negative outlook on sempra energy's credit ratings may adversely affect the market price of socalgas' preferred stock, and both sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' debt securities, and could make it more costly for sdg&amp;e and socalgas to issue debt securities, to borrow under their credit facilities and to raise other types of financing. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new or ongoing business activities. this could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. if socalgas or sdg&amp;e were to have their credit ratings downgraded, their cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and any downgrades of sempra energy's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of sempra energy. if the credit ratings of sempra energy or any of its subsidiaries were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we discuss our credit ratings further in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and also above under certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk. we have significant foreign operations in mexico and south america. our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax and economic risks. certain of these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all of our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties, and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which 39 may be driven by changes in their environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities that give rise to mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in oci caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. mexico developed a legal framework for the regulation of the hydrocarbons and electric power sectors based on a package of constitutional amendments approved by the mexican congress in december 2013 and implementing legislation enacted in 2014 and the issuance of new regulations thereunder. we have made significant investments in mexico based on this legal framework and should the legal framework be modified or withdrawn, it may significantly reduce the value of our existing investments, reduce investment opportunities, and impact our decision to make further investments in mexico. the current u.s. administration indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as nafta, and implement u.s. immigration policy changes by reviewing various options, including tariffs, for funding new mexico-u.s. border security infrastructure. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets. in addition, if this occurs, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries severe weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides and fires, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities; electric transmission and distribution; power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation; marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities; and nuclear power facilities (currently being decommissioned). such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. 40 depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other greenhouse gases; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california has impacted sdg&amp;e's ability to recover certain costs associated with the 2007 wildfires in sdg&amp;e's territory and the proceedings related thereto in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below under risks related to the california utilities insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, any inability to recover uninsured costs associated with wildfires, or the perception that such costs may not be recoverable, could materially adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses, including our international operations. frequent drought conditions and unseasonably warm temperatures have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators, which could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories. in addition, severe weather conditions could result in delays and/or cost increases to our capital projects. additionally, severe rainstorms and associated high winds, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, along the coastal areas in our service territories could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs, and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities or our utilities in mexico or south america encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or requirements or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. in addition to the tcja described above, any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california 41 utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and propane and ethane systems require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements with los angeles county and the city of los angeles, where the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility is located, are due to expire in 2018 and 2019, respectively. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy projects and properties; regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our joint ventures, are subject to laws and regulations protecting migratory birds, which have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, california sb 350 requires all load-serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that will ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in ghg emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. 42 in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of 43 cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot assure that a successful attack has not occurred and will not occur. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas, ethane, or propane pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful or such expenditures may not be recovered. emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets or the operating assets of our investees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability and our investment partners' abilities to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. if we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, or if implemented technology fails to operate as intended, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological changes that could negatively impact our businesses include sempra utilities technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets, including: the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects), and energy storage technology. sempra infrastructure at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra lng &amp; midstream, technological advances could reduce the demand for natural gas. these technologies include cost-effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service; capital structure; rates of return; 44 rates of depreciation; long-term resource procurement; and sales of securities. the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards or authorizations for less than full recovery may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc decision tree framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of certain of these historical costs, which could adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the cpuc now incorporates a risk-based decision-making framework in its review of grc applications for major natural gas and electric utilities in california. we cannot estimate whether its application in the 2019 grc or future grc applications will result in full recovery of costs. we discuss this further in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over native american tribal land held in trust by the federal government. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs or, in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire, could require us to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, difficulties in renewing rights-of-way and other property rights, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be adversely affected. 45 successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; our ability to shut down power for safety reasons, including potentially dangerous wildfire conditions; general safety; accounting and income tax matters, including changes in tax law; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating and other facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these and other operations that may be recovered from customers. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to remediating the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and to mitigate local community and environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and ghg mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility (the leak), located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county, california. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility has been operated by socalgas since 1972. ss25 is one of more than 100 injection-and-withdrawal wells at the storage facility. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, and in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to a stipulation and order by the la superior court, socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it before the well was permanently sealed, at significant cost to socalgas. following the permanent sealing of the well and the completion of the dph's indoor testing of certain homes in the porter ranch community, which concluded that indoor conditions did not present a long-term health risk and that it was safe for residents to return home, the la superior court issued an order in may 2016 ruling that currently relocated residents be given the choice to request residence cleaning prior to returning home, with such cleaning to be performed according to the dph's proposed protocol and at socalgas' expense. socalgas completed the cleaning program, and the relocation program ended in july 2016. in may 2016, the dph also issued a directive that socalgas professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five-mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and have experienced symptoms from the leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts have been significant and may increase, and we may be subject to potentially significant damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs. to the extent any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of 46 applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. through december 31, 2017, we have received $469 million of insurance proceeds for portions of control-of-well expenses, lost gas and temporary relocation costs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining additional recovery or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. at december 31, 2017, socalgas estimates that its costs related to the leak are $913 million , which includes $887 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, costs not included in the cost estimate of $913 million could be material. as described in governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation below, the actions against us seek compensatory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $913 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs. the recorded amounts above also do not include costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directive, future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate of $913 million does not include certain other costs expensed by sempra energy through december 31, 2017 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation various governmental agencies, including doggr, dph, scaqmd, carb, los angeles regional water quality control board, california division of occupational safety and health, cpuc, phmsa, epa, los angeles county district attorney's office and california attorney general's office, have investigated or are investigating this incident. other federal agencies (e.g., the doe and u.s. department of the interior) investigated the incident as part of a joint interagency task force. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the timing of completion of the root cause analysis is under the control of blade energy partners, doggr and the cpuc. as of february 22, 2018, 373 lawsuits, including over 45,000 plaintiffs, are pending in the la superior court against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. these various lawsuits have been coordinated before a single court and will be managed under a second amended master complaint for individual actions, and two consolidated class action complaints. in addition, a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws has been filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers and directors in the sdca. five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. three complaints have also been filed by public entities, including the california attorney general and the county of los angeles. these complaints seek various remedies, including injunctive relief, abatement of the public nuisance, civil penalties, payment of the cost of a longitudinal health study, and money damages, as well as punitive damages and attorneys' fees. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. for a more detailed description of the governmental investigations and civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the costs of defending against the civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with the various investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 47 regulatory proceedings in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. the order establishing the scope of the proceeding expressly excludes issues with respect to air quality, public health, causation, culpability or cost responsibility regarding the leak. section 455.5 of the california public utilities code, among other things, directs regulated utilities to notify the cpuc if all or any portion of a major facility has been out of service for nine consecutive months. although socalgas does not believe the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or any portion of that facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, socalgas provided notification out of an abundance of caution to demonstrate its commitment to regulatory compliance and transparency, and because obtaining authorization to resume injection operations at the facility required more time than initially contemplated. in response, and as required by section 455.5, the cpuc issued an oii to address whether the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or any portion of that facility was out of service for nine consecutive months within the meaning of section 455.5, and if so, whether the cpuc should disallow costs for such period from socalgas' rates. under section 455.5, hearings on the investigation are to be held, if necessary, in conjunction with socalgas' 2019 grc proceeding. if the cpuc determines that all or any portion of the facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, the amount of any refund to ratepayers and the inability to earn a return on those assets could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental orders and additional regulation in december 2015, socalgas made a commitment to mitigate the actual natural gas released from the leak and has been working on a plan to accomplish the mitigation. in march 2016, the carb issued its recommended approach to achieve full mitigation of the emissions from the leak, which includes recommendations that: reductions in short-lived climate pollutants and other greenhouse gases be at least equivalent to the amount of the emissions from the leak, a 20-year global warming potential be used in deriving the amount of reductions required (rather than the 100-year term the carb and other state and federal agencies use in regulating emissions), and all of the mitigation occur in california over the next five to ten years without the use of allowances or offsets. in october 2016, carb issued its final report concluding that the incident resulted in total emissions from 90,350 to 108,950 metric tons of methane, and asserting that socalgas should mitigate 109,000 metric tons of methane to fully mitigate the greenhouse gas impacts of the leak. although we have not agreed with carb's estimate of methane released, we continue to work with carb on developing a mitigation plan. phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb have each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr has issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, may be scheduled, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. beginning october 24, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor of the state of california, and sb 380, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were made in 2017 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. in july 2017, doggr issued an order lifting the prohibition on injection at aliso canyon, subject to certain operational requirements, and socalgas resumed limited injections. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be taken out of service for any meaningful period of time, it could result in an impairment of the facility, significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2017, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility 48 has a net book value of $644 million , including $252 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compressor station. any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' plan for implementing psep, and established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. various psep-related proceedings are regularly pending before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests, which are often challenged by intervening parties. these proceedings are described in more detail in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs. from 2011 through 2017, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested approximately $1.3 billion and $355 million , respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2017, socalgas has received approval for recovery of $33 million . if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. california sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. the cpuc previously implemented both electric and gas safety enforcement programs whereby electric and gas utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to be in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 49 the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of a more significant fixed charge, could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. as higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, such as rooftop solar, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that establishes comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded tou rates, and implemented a super-user electric surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent within each climate zone. the decision is being implemented over a five-year period from 2015 to 2020, and should result in significant relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020 (but it also sets certain conditions for the implementation of a fixed charge), after the initial reforms are implemented. the establishment of a fixed charge for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers as distributed energy resources could generally reduce delivered volumes and increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. meaningful nem reform must continue to progress to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to nem customers while minimizing the cost shift (or subsidy) being borne by non-solar customers. due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own electricity using eligible renewable resources (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the proportionate costs not paid by nem customers are therefore subsidized by consumers not participating in nem. in addition, the continuing increase of self-generated solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. appropriate nem reforms are necessary to help ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations were to increase substantially between 2016 and when more significant reforms take effect in 2019 or later, as described below, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327. the nem program was originally established in 1995 and is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, they receive compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. in january 2016, the cpuc adopted a decision making modest changes to the nem program, which require nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. together with a reduction in tiered rate differentials and the potential implementation of a fixed charge component in 2020, these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary and appropriate. sdg&amp;e implemented the adopted successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the prior nem program. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric 50 distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently closed, but utility customers could receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city of san diego and a few other municipalities are considering the formation of a cca, which, if implemented, could result in the departure of more than half of sdg&amp;e's bundled load. for example, solana beach (representing less than one percent of sdg&amp;e's customer accounts) has elected to begin cca service in 2018. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could be borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf, though appropriate mechanisms to ensure that such costs are properly absorbed are not yet in place. if mechanisms to ensure compliance with state law are not in place at the time of these potentially significant reductions in sdg&amp;e's served load, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of these cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. for example, california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's facilities, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be the cause of one or more fires, the utility could be liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase of wildfires (several catastrophic wildfires occurred in california in late 2017) for reasons such as drought conditions, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and the affected california utility's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. in addition, we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates the increased costs of insurance or the costs of any uninsured losses. sdg&amp;e incurred cpuc-related costs to resolve 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision allowing sdg&amp;e to maintain an authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. in september 2015, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc seeking authority to recover such costs in rates over a six- to ten-year period. on december 6, 2017, the cpuc issued a final decision denying sdg&amp;e's request to recover the 2007 wildfire costs submitted in our application. if sdg&amp;e is unsuccessful in its efforts to reverse the final decision through the rehearing and appeals process, the 2007 wildfire costs or costs associated with any future wildfires may not be recoverable. in addition, pending legislation may prohibit recovery of any uninsured wildfire costs in cases of inverse condemnation where california utilities are strictly liable. the failure to recover for 51 the 2007 wildfires or future wildfires could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and the affected california utility's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we discuss these cost recovery proceedings in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains nuclear decommissioning trusts for the purpose of providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. depending on how the irs or the u.s. department of treasury ultimately interprets or alters regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for spent fuel management while edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of spent fuel management costs in litigation against, or in settlements with, the doe. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs, which are costs that may be paid for or reimbursed from a qualified fund. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is waiting for the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs that were or will be incurred in 2016 and subsequent years. until the doe litigation is resolved, and/or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. in november 2014, the cpuc approved the amended settlement agreement that resolved the investigation into the steam generator replacement project that ultimately led to the shut-down of songs. various petitions have since been filed to reopen the settlement. in december 2016, the cpuc issued a ruling directing parties to the songs oii to determine whether an agreement could be reached to modify the amended settlement agreement previously approved by the cpuc, to resolve allegations that unreported ex parte communications between edison and the cpuc resulted in an unfair advantage at the time the settlement agreement was negotiated. in october 2017, the cpuc issued a ruling with respect to the proceeding establishing a process to bring the proceeding to a conclusion and in november 2017, the cpuc held a status conference. in january 2018, the cpuc issued a ruling that further clarified the scope of future evidentiary hearings. this ruling establishes a status conference and includes a preliminary schedule for additional testimony, hearings and briefings. on january 30, 2018, sdg&amp;e, edison, turn, 52 ora and other intervenors entered into a revised settlement agreement. on the same date, the parties filed a joint motion for adoption of the settlement agreement with the cpuc. if approved by the cpuc, the revised settlement agreement will resolve all issues under consideration in the songs oii and will modify the amended settlement agreement. on february 1, 2018, the parties filed a motion to stay the proceedings in the oii pending the cpuc's consideration of the revised settlement agreement. on february 6, 2018, the cpuc issued a ruling granting the parties' motion to stay the proceedings and establishing a tentative procedural schedule with public participation hearings in april and july, evidentiary hearings in april and may and briefing in june of 2018. the timing of a decision from the cpuc on the joint motion for adoption of the settlement agreement is uncertain. we cannot assure that the revised settlement agreement will be adopted or that the amended settlement agreement will not be modified or set aside as a result of this oii proceeding. in connection with the revised settlement agreement, and in exchange for the release of certain songs-related claims, sdg&amp;e and edison entered into an agreement (the utility shareholder agreement) in which edison has agreed to pay sdg&amp;e the amounts that sdg&amp;e would have received in rates under the amended settlement agreement, but will not receive upon implementation of the revised settlement agreement. the utility shareholder agreement is not subject to the approval of the cpuc. however, it is not effective unless and until the cpuc approves the revised settlement agreement. we provide additional detail in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our sempra south american utilities and sempra infrastructure businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. in particular, north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively impact profitability at sempra lng &amp; midstream . unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. 53 sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights-of-way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights-of-way equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, cameron lng jv is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the estimated construction, financing and other project 54 costs for the facility are within the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision. if these costs increase above the budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to contribute additional cash. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $3.9 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to the joint venture's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.9 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. in october 2016, the epc contractor indicated that the cameron lng project would not achieve its originally scheduled dates for completion and subsequently provided project schedules reflecting further delays to the cameron lng project. the delays will result in the anticipated earnings and associated cash flows from the cameron lng jv project coming in later than originally anticipated. in december 2017, cameron lng jv entered into a settlement agreement with the epc contractor to settle the contractor's claims (including those resulting from hurricane harvey) that it was owed additional compensation beyond the original contract price and that it was entitled to schedule extensions under the contract. based on a number of factors, we continue to believe it is reasonable to expect that all three lng trains will be producing lng in 2019, though there can be no assurance that this project will not be further delayed. these factors, among others, include the terms of the settlement agreement, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules, the epc contractor's progress to date, the remaining work left to be performed, and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as cameron lng. the inability to complete the project in accordance with the current schedule, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. for additional discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, a brownfield project at our existing eca regasification facility in baja california, mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all of these projects is the risk that global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). in february 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed port arthur lng liquefaction project with an affiliate of woodside petroleum ltd., which replaced a prior agreement between the parties. the project development agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and continues a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the port arthur lng liquefaction project. in june 2017, sempra lng &amp; midstream, woodside petroleum ltd. and korea gas corporation signed a memorandum of understanding that provides a framework for cooperation and joint discussion by the parties 55 regarding key aspects of the potential development of the port arthur lng project, including engineering and construction work, o&amp;m activities, feed gas sourcing, offtake of lng and the potential for korea gas corporation to purchase lng from, and become an equity participant in, the port arthur lng project. the memorandum of understanding does not commit any party to buy or sell lng or otherwise participate in the port arthur liquefaction lng project. also, in may 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream, ienova and a subsidiary of pemex entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca regasification facility in mexico. the agreement specifies how the parties share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial activities associated with developing the potential liquefaction project. pemex's cost-sharing obligations under this agreement ended on december 31, 2017. any decisions by the parties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the formation of these potential joint ventures and the potential development of these projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all of our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, tolling capacity agreements or natural gas supply and lng sales agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all of the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. one of the partners indicated to sempra energy and the other partners that it does not intend to invest additional capital in cameron lng jv with respect to the expansion. as a result, discussions among the partners have occurred, and we are considering a variety of options to attempt to move the expansion project forward. these activities have contributed to delays in developing firm pricing information and securing customer commitments, and there can be no assurance that these issues will be resolved in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely impact the near-term marketing of this project and ability to secure customer commitments. in light of these developments, we are unable to predict whether or when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca facility in mexico is subject to on-going land disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, eca has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in item 1. business and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies, including the epa and the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior, have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the safe drinking water act and to require 56 disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three train cameron lng facility currently under construction. increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, it is likely that most of these projects will not be completed. finally, as existing contracts expire at our natural gas storage assets in the gulf coast region, we compete with other facilities for storage customers that could continue to support the existing carrying value of these assets, and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as nafta. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with engie s.a. and affiliates of mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co. ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or 57 natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our natural gas storage assets include operational and development assets at bay gas in alabama and mississippi hub in mississippi, as well as our development project, la storage in louisiana. la storage could be positioned to support lng export from the cameron lng jv terminal and other liquefaction projects, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. however, changes in the u.s. natural gas market could also lead to diminished natural gas storage values. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas and mississippi hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. future investment in bay gas, mississippi hub and la storage will depend on market demand and estimates of long-term storage values. our la storage development project construction permit expired in june 2017 and future development will require approval of a new construction permit by the ferc. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not contracted. market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their carrying value. to the extent the carrying value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. the carrying value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2017 was $1.5 billion. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we provide information about these matters in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our eca lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the eca lng terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very 58 difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation, electricity generation, and lng and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses adverse changes in market conditions and inadequate enforcement of regulations high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets destruction of property or assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws valuation of goodwill theft of assets our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may 59 not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. risks related to the pending acquisition of energy future holdings corp. in this risk factors section, we sometimes refer to sempra energy, after giving effect to the assumed completion of the merger, as the combined company. our pending acquisition of efh, including efh's 80.03 percent indirect interest in oncor, is subject to various conditions, including the receipt of governmental and regulatory approvals, which approvals may impose onerous conditions, and is subject to other risks and uncertainties that could cause the merger to be abandoned, delayed or restructured and/or materially adversely affect sempra energy. sempra energy, efh and oncor have not obtained all the governmental and regulatory consents, approvals and rulings required to complete the merger, including approval from the puct, among others. these and other governmental and regulatory authorities may not provide the consents, approvals and rulings that are conditions to the merger or that are otherwise necessary for oncor's operations after the merger, could seek to block or challenge the merger, or may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions to their approval. the agreements governing the merger may require us to accept conditions from these regulators that could materially adversely impact the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. if the required governmental consents, approvals and rulings are not received, or if they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the agreements governing the merger, then neither sempra energy, efh nor oncor will be obligated to complete the merger. sempra energy and efh have determined that the merger is not subject to the premerger notification requirements of the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended (the hsr act). even though sempra energy and efh have determined that the merger is not subject to the hsr act, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger or compel divestiture of a portion of the combined company if they deem it necessary or desirable in the public interest to do so. in addition, in some jurisdictions, a private party could initiate an action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. as a result, actions taken by governmental authorities or private parties, both before or after completion of the merger, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects or may result in conditions or requirements that lead to abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. we can provide no assurance that the various closing conditions will be satisfied and that the required governmental and other necessary approvals will be obtained, or that any required conditions to such approvals will not materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company following the merger. in addition, it is possible that any conditions to such approvals will result in the abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. the occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects, whether or not the merger is completed. completion of the merger is also subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties that, among other things, may alter the proposed structure and ultimate financing for the merger, result in changes in or impose other limitations or conditions on the business of the combined company following the merger or have other effects that may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company if the merger is consummated or may lead to abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. other parties may offer to acquire efh or oncor on terms that are more favorable to efh than the terms of the merger agreement. under the terms of the merger agreement, efh or its subsidiary efih may terminate the merger agreement in certain circumstances if either of their respective boards of directors determines in its sole discretion, after consultation with their independent financial advisors and outside legal counsel, that the failure to terminate the merger agreement is inconsistent with their fiduciary duties, which may allow them to terminate the merger agreement in order to accept an offer from another party. if the merger is not completed, we will not realize the potential benefits of the merger, but will still be required to pay the substantial costs incurred in connection with pursuing the merger. if the merger is not completed, these and other factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. 60 efh could incur substantial tax liabilities related to its 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh, which would reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016 efh distributed all of the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. irs private letter rulings are generally binding on the irs, but the continuing validity of that ruling, as well as the tax opinions received, are subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions, as well as the performance by efh and vistra of certain undertakings, made to the irs in connection with obtaining the ruling and to counsel in connection with their opinions. if any of the factual representations or assumptions in the irs private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) were untrue or incomplete, any such undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs private letter ruling or tax opinions were based are different from the actual facts relating to the spin-off, the tax opinions and/or irs private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the spin-off did not qualify for the intended tax treatment, efh could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh if the merger is completed and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. due to the risks posed by the spin-off not qualifying for the intended tax treatment, we have required, as an express condition to closing of the merger, that efh must receive a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs as well as tax opinions of counsel to sempra energy and efh that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. in november 2017, efh received the supplemental private letter ruling from the irs that provides that the merger will not affect the tax-free treatment of the spinoff. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are and will be based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, efh could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh if the merger is completed and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, efh has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. failure by oncor to successfully execute its business strategy and objectives may materially adversely affect the future results of the combined company and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including delivering electricity in a safe and reliable manner, minimizing service interruptions and investing in its transmission and distribution infrastructure to maintain its system, serve its growing customer base with a modernized grid, and support energy production. these objectives are capital intensive. see below under oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, and the merger may materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger, and the combined company could continue to incur substantial costs as a result of the merger. we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, including fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors. moreover, if the merger is completed, the combined company will incur 61 substantial costs in connection with the merger, including fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations prior to completion of the merger and of the combined company following the completion of the merger. we have issued equity securities to fund a significant portion of the merger consideration and may issue additional equity securities after the merger to reduce our indebtedness, which may dilute the economic and voting interests of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock and preferred stock. under the merger agreement, we are required to pay merger consideration of $9.45 billion, payable in cash. in january 2018, we completed the offering of 23,364,486 shares of our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements (the forward sale agreements) and directly issued 3,504,672 shares of our common stock to the underwriters in the offering to raise proceeds to fund a portion of the merger consideration. we did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of our common stock pursuant to the forward sale agreements. we expect to settle a portion of the forward sale agreements and receive cash proceeds, subject to certain adjustments, from the sale of shares of our common stock concurrently with, or prior to, the closing of the merger. we expect to settle the remaining portion of the forward sale agreements after the merger, if completed, in multiple settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019, in each case entirely by physical delivery of shares of our common stock in exchange for cash proceeds. in addition, in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series a (the mandatory convertible preferred stock ), which we expect will ultimately convert into common stock. some of these equity issuances, including common stock issued upon settlement of the forward sale agreements, will likely occur following the merger to repay outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness we have incurred and expect to incur in connection with the merger. see below under we have incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger and will likely incur additional indebtedness related the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. although the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we may in fact issue fewer shares of any equity securities than anticipated, the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock) will have the effect, and the issuance of additional equity securities may have the effect, of diluting the economic and voting interests of our shareholders. in addition, the issuance of additional shares of common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock) without a commensurate increase in our consolidated earnings would dilute, and the issuance of additional equity securities could dilute, our earnings per common share. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. we have incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger and will likely incur additional indebtedness related to the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. we have incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. in january 2018, we issued $5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes in various series that mature between 2019 and 2048, and we expect to issue up to $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of commercial paper, although we may reduce the amount of commercial paper by borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and cash from operations, to initially fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. moreover, although we intend to use equity financing after completion of the merger to repay a portion of the indebtedness incurred to finance the merger and associated transaction costs, to the extent we are unable to do so, the amount of indebtedness we have incurred to finance the merger and associated transaction costs will be higher than currently anticipated. accordingly, our debt service obligations resulting from such additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. our increased indebtedness could make it more difficult and/or costly for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic and industry conditions, because a decrease in revenues or increase in costs could cause cash flow from operations to be insufficient to make scheduled debt service payments; limit our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate and, consequently, put us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; require a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; result in a downgrade in the credit ratings on our indebtedness (including as discussed above under risks related to sempra energy certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, which may 62 adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. ), which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds, increase the interest rates under our credit facilities and under any new indebtedness we may incur, and reduce the trading prices of our outstanding debt securities, common stock and preferred stock; make it more difficult for us to raise capital to fund working capital, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, pursue strategic initiatives or for other purposes; result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our current or future borrowings subject to variable rates of interest; require that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might include, for example, limitations on additional borrowings; and result in specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibitions or limitations on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. based on the current and expected results of operations and financial condition of sempra energy and our subsidiaries and the currently anticipated financing structure for the merger, we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with the proceeds from borrowings, issuances of equity and debt securities, distributions from our equity method investments, project financing and equity sales (including tax equity and partnering in joint ventures) will generate sufficient cash on a consolidated basis to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under sempra energy's and our current subsidiaries' existing credit facilities, indentures and other instruments governing their outstanding indebtedness and under the indebtedness that we have incurred and that we may incur to fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. however, our expectation is subject to numerous estimates, assumptions and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to make such payments of principal and interest or repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations when due. oncor and its subsidiaries will not guarantee any indebtedness of sempra energy or any of our other subsidiaries, nor will any of them have any obligation to provide funds (nor will we have any ability to require them to provide funds), whether in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise, to enable sempra energy to pay dividends on its common stock or mandatory convertible preferred stock or to enable our other subsidiaries to make required debt service payments, particularly in light of the ring-fencing arrangements described below under certain ring-fencing measures and other existing governance mechanisms will limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. as a result, the merger will substantially increase our debt service obligations without any assurance that we will receive any cash from oncor or any of its subsidiaries to assist us in servicing our indebtedness, paying dividends on our common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock or meeting our other cash needs. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of our indebtedness outstanding following the merger. we may seek to reduce this indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, other equity securities, and the settlement of sales of our common stock pursuant to our forward sale agreements, cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales, which may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. however, our ability to raise additional equity financing after completion of the merger will be subject to market conditions and a number of other risks and uncertainties, including whether the results of operations of the combined company meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities after the merger on terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness after the merger, should we elect to do so, to a level that permits us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings. the merger may not positively affect our results of operations and may cause a decrease in our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we anticipate that the merger, if consummated on the terms and under our financing structure, will have a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations. this expectation is based on current market conditions and is subject to a number of assumptions, estimates, projections and other uncertainties, including assumptions regarding the results of operations of the combined company after the merger and the relative mix and timing of debt and equity financing necessary to ultimately fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. this expectation also assumes that oncor will perform in accordance with our expectations, and there can be no assurance that this will occur. in addition, we may encounter additional transaction costs and costs to manage our investment in oncor, may fail to realize some or any of the benefits anticipated in the merger, may be subject to currently unknown liabilities as a result of the merger, or may be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. as a result, there can be no assurance that the merger will positively impact our results of operations, and it is possible that the merger may have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects or may cause our earnings per share to decrease, any of which may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. 63 certain ring-fencing measures and other existing governance mechanisms will limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. efh and oncor implemented various ring-fencing measures in 2007 to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence has created both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and efh and its affiliates and other subsidiaries, on the other hand. pursuant to the agreements related to the merger, existing governance mechanisms, and commitments that we made as part of our application to the puct for approval of the merger and the related stipulation with key stakeholders in the proceeding, we have committed to certain ring-fencing measures and will be subject to certain restrictions following the merger. these measures, governance mechanisms and restrictions include the following, among other things: following consummation of the merger, the board of directors of oncor will consist of thirteen members, seven of which will be independent directors in all material respects under the rules of the new york stock exchange in relation to sempra energy and its subsidiaries and affiliated entities and any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings (and those directors must have no material relationship with sempra energy or its affiliates, or any other entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, at the time of the merger or within the previous 10 years), two of which will be designated by sempra energy, two of which will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, which is an investment vehicle owned by third parties unaffiliated with efh and sempra energy and that owns approximately 19.75 percent of the outstanding membership interests in oncor, and two of which will be members of oncor management, initially robert s. shapard and e. allen nye, jr., who no later than the closing of the merger will be the chair of the oncor board and chief executive officer of oncor, respectively. in addition, oncor holdings will also continue to have a majority of independent directors following the consummation of the merger; if the credit rating on oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; we have agreed to make, within 60 days after the merger, our proportionate share of the aggregate equity investment in oncor in an amount necessary for oncor to achieve a capital structure consisting of 57.5 percent long-term debt and 42.5 percent equity, as calculated for regulatory purposes; oncor may not pay dividends or make any other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) to its owners, including sempra energy, if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements (including continuing compliance with its debt-to-equity ratio required by the puct described above); certain transactions, including certain mergers and sales of substantially all assets, changes to the dividend policy and declarations of bankruptcy and liquidation, require the approval of all, or in certain circumstances a majority, of the independent directors of oncor and at least one, or in certain circumstances both, of the directors appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti; and there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from efh and efh's owners, such as a prohibition on oncor providing guarantees or security for debt of efh or sempra energy. pursuant to the stipulation, the current independent directors for oncor and oncor holdings will continue to serve for three years following the closing of the merger, and thereafter two of these independent directors will cease to be members of their respective boards every two years. each subsequent independent director will be elected for a term of four years. the stipulation also provides that oncor holdings will have a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors, who will nominate the independent director board member candidates of oncor and oncor holdings, subject to approval by a majority of the remaining independent directors of oncor holdings. if any independent director is removed, retires or is unable to serve, the stipulation provides that a replacement independent director must be chosen by the nominating committee of oncor holdings and approved by a majority of the remaining independent directors of oncor holdings. under the stipulation, the duties of the board members of oncor and oncor holdings will be to act in the best interests of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law. any future changes to the size, composition, structure or rights of the boards of oncor and oncor holdings must first be approved by the puct. accordingly, we will not control oncor or oncor holdings and will have only a limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor, including the deployment or disposition of oncor assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate actions and issues. the existence of these ring-fencing measures may increase our costs of financing and operating efh and its subsidiaries. further, the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent they 64 take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined company may be materially adversely affected. certain key personnel at oncor may choose to depart oncor prior to, upon completion of or shortly after the merger, and any loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect the future business and operations of oncor and the anticipated benefits of the merger. if, despite efforts to retain certain key personnel at oncor, any key personnel depart or fail to continue employment as a result of the merger, the loss of the services of such personnel and their experience and knowledge could adversely affect oncor's results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the successful ongoing operation of its business, which could also have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company after completion of the merger. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect the combined company. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and prospects, which could materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company after the merger. oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements or if its credit ratings at closing by any one of the three major rating agencies are below the ratings as of june 30, 2017, we may be required to make additional investments in oncor or if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects after the merger. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may be required to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. the market value of our common stock could decline if our existing shareholders sell large amounts of our common stock in anticipation of or following the merger, and the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities may be affected by factors following the merger that are different from those affecting the market prices for our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities prior to the merger. following the merger, shareholders of sempra energy will own interests in a combined company operating an expanded business with more assets and more indebtedness. current shareholders of sempra energy may not wish to continue to invest in the combined company, or may wish to reduce their investment in the combined company, for a number of reasons, which may include loss of confidence in the ability of the combined company to execute its business strategies, to comply with institutional investing guidelines, to increase diversification or to track any rebalancing of stock indices in which sempra energy common stock is included. if, before or following the merger, large amounts of sempra energy common stock are sold, the market price of our common stock could decline. in addition, we are more exposed to rising interest rates due to our use of floating rate notes and significant increase in the amount of debt outstanding to finance the merger. if the merger is consummated, the risks associated with the combined company may affect the results of operations of the combined company and the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities following the merger differently than they affected such results of operations and market prices prior to the merger. additionally, the results of operations of the combined company may be affected by additional or different risks than those that currently affect the results of operations of sempra energy. any of the foregoing matters could materially adversely affect the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities following the merger. settlement provisions contained in our equity forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, we completed the offering of 23,364,486 shares of our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements (the forward sale agreements) to raise proceeds to fund a portion of the merger consideration. the counterparties to the forward sale 65 agreements (the forward purchasers) will have the right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and require us to physically settle the forward sale agreements on a date specified by the forward purchasers if: they are unable to establish, maintain or unwind their hedge position with respect to the forward sale agreements; they determine that they are unable to, or it is commercially impracticable for them to, continue to borrow a number of shares of our common stock equal to the number of shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements or that, with respect to borrowing such number of shares of our common stock, they would incur a rate that is greater than the borrow cost specified in the forward sale agreements, subject to a prior notice requirement; we declare or pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock in an amount in excess of amounts, or at a time before, those prescribed by the forward sale agreements or declare or pay certain other types of dividends or distributions on shares of our common stock; an event is announced that, if consummated, would result in an extraordinary event (including certain mergers and tender offers, our nationalization, our insolvency and the delisting of the shares of our common stock); an ownership event (as such term is defined in the forward sale agreements) occurs; or certain other events of default, termination events or other specified events occur, including, among other things, a change in law. the forward purchasers' decision to exercise their right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and to require us to settle the forward sale agreements will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the forward sale agreements irrespective of our capital needs, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our mandatory convertible preferred stock, any other equity that we may issue, and our debt securities. the forward sale agreements provide for settlement on a settlement date or dates to be specified at our discretion, but which we expect to occur in multiple settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019. subject to the provisions of the forward sale agreements, delivery of our shares upon physical or net share settlement of the forward sale agreements will result in dilution to our earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, mandatory convertible preferred stock and any other equity that we may issue. we may elect, subject to certain conditions, cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements if we conclude that it is in our interest to do so. for example, we may conclude that it is in our interest to cash settle or net share settle the forward sale agreements if the merger does not close or if we otherwise have no current use for all or a portion of the net proceeds due upon physical settlement of the forward sale agreements. if we elect to cash or net share settle all or a portion of the shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements, we would expect the forward purchasers or one of their affiliates to purchase the number of shares necessary, based on the number of shares with respect to which we have elected cash or net share settlement, in order to satisfy their obligation to return the shares of our common stock they had borrowed in connection with sales of our common stock related to our january 2018 common stock offering and, if applicable in connection with net share settlement, to deliver shares of our common stock to us or take into account shares of our common stock to be delivered by us, as applicable. the purchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers or their affiliates to unwind the forward purchasers' hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase over time, thereby increasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that we would owe to the forward purchasers upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements, or decreasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that the forward purchasers owe us upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements. dividend requirements associated with the mandatory convertible preferred stock sempra energy issued to finance a portion of the merger consideration subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, sempra energy issued 17,250,000 shares of its mandatory convertible preferred stock. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on the mandatory convertible preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and investments to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or 66 repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock further provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock (i) have not been declared and paid, or (ii) have been declared but a sum of cash or number of shares of our common stock sufficient for payment thereof has not been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date, in each case, for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other classes or series of our preferred stock ranking equally with the mandatory convertible preferred stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up and having similar voting rights, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20 -percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is $997 million at december 31, 2017 . at december 31, 2017 , sempra renewables had investments totaling $813 million in several joint ventures to operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of transcanada to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50 -percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california , and a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. at december 31, 2017 , these various joint venture investments by sempra mexico totaled $624 million . sempra energy has an investment balance of $67 million at december 31, 2017 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 4 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 67 impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2017, sempra energy had approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.8 percent of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 140 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk and also above under certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk. we have significant foreign operations in mexico and south america. our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax and economic risks. certain of these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all of our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties, and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which 39 may be driven by changes in their environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities that give rise to mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in oci caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the u.s. dollar. we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. mexico developed a legal framework for the regulation of the hydrocarbons and electric power sectors based on a package of constitutional amendments approved by the mexican congress in december 2013 and implementing legislation enacted in 2014 and the issuance of new regulations thereunder. we have made significant investments in mexico based on this legal framework and should the legal framework be modified or withdrawn, it may significantly reduce the value of our existing investments, reduce investment opportunities, and impact our decision to make further investments in mexico. the current u.s. administration indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as nafta, and implement u.s. immigration policy changes by reviewing various options, including tariffs, for funding new mexico-u.s. border security infrastructure. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets. in addition, if this occurs, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. risks related to all sempra energy subsidiaries severe weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides and fires, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities; electric transmission and distribution; power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation; marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities; and nuclear power facilities (currently being decommissioned). such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. 40 depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other greenhouse gases; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california has impacted sdg&amp;e's ability to recover certain costs associated with the 2007 wildfires in sdg&amp;e's territory and the proceedings related thereto in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below under risks related to the california utilities insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, any inability to recover uninsured costs associated with wildfires, or the perception that such costs may not be recoverable, could materially adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses, including our international operations. frequent drought conditions and unseasonably warm temperatures have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators, which could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories. in addition, severe weather conditions could result in delays and/or cost increases to our capital projects. additionally, severe rainstorms and associated high winds, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, along the coastal areas in our service territories could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs, and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities or our utilities in mexico or south america encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or requirements or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. in addition to the tcja described above, any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california 41 utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and propane and ethane systems require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements with los angeles county and the city of los angeles, where the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility is located, are due to expire in 2018 and 2019, respectively. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy projects and properties; regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our joint ventures, are subject to laws and regulations protecting migratory birds, which have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, california sb 350 requires all load-serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that will ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in ghg emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. 42 in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. while our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of 43 cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, but we cannot assure that a successful attack has not occurred and will not occur. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas, ethane, or propane pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful or such expenditures may not be recovered. emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets or the operating assets of our investees. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability and our investment partners' abilities to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. if we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, or if implemented technology fails to operate as intended, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. examples of technological changes that could negatively impact our businesses include sempra utilities technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets, including: the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects), and energy storage technology. sempra infrastructure at sempra renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. sempra renewables' customers' ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation. at sempra lng &amp; midstream, technological advances could reduce the demand for natural gas. these technologies include cost-effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service; capital structure; rates of return; 44 rates of depreciation; long-term resource procurement; and sales of securities. the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in notes 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards or authorizations for less than full recovery may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the california utilities' authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc decision tree framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of certain of these historical costs, which could adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the cpuc now incorporates a risk-based decision-making framework in its review of grc applications for major natural gas and electric utilities in california. we cannot estimate whether its application in the 2019 grc or future grc applications will result in full recovery of costs. we discuss this further in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities, and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over native american tribal land held in trust by the federal government. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs or, in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire, could require us to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, difficulties in renewing rights-of-way and other property rights, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be adversely affected. 45 successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities; our ability to shut down power for safety reasons, including potentially dangerous wildfire conditions; general safety; accounting and income tax matters, including changes in tax law; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating and other facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these and other operations that may be recovered from customers. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to remediating the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and to mitigate local community and environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and ghg mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility (the leak), located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county, california. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility has been operated by socalgas since 1972. ss25 is one of more than 100 injection-and-withdrawal wells at the storage facility. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, and in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to a stipulation and order by the la superior court, socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it before the well was permanently sealed, at significant cost to socalgas. following the permanent sealing of the well and the completion of the dph's indoor testing of certain homes in the porter ranch community, which concluded that indoor conditions did not present a long-term health risk and that it was safe for residents to return home, the la superior court issued an order in may 2016 ruling that currently relocated residents be given the choice to request residence cleaning prior to returning home, with such cleaning to be performed according to the dph's proposed protocol and at socalgas' expense. socalgas completed the cleaning program, and the relocation program ended in july 2016. in may 2016, the dph also issued a directive that socalgas professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five-mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and have experienced symptoms from the leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts have been significant and may increase, and we may be subject to potentially significant damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs. to the extent any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of 46 applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. through december 31, 2017, we have received $469 million of insurance proceeds for portions of control-of-well expenses, lost gas and temporary relocation costs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining additional recovery or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. at december 31, 2017, socalgas estimates that its costs related to the leak are $913 million , which includes $887 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, costs not included in the cost estimate of $913 million could be material. as described in governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation below, the actions against us seek compensatory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $913 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs. the recorded amounts above also do not include costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directive, future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate of $913 million does not include certain other costs expensed by sempra energy through december 31, 2017 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations and civil and criminal litigation various governmental agencies, including doggr, dph, scaqmd, carb, los angeles regional water quality control board, california division of occupational safety and health, cpuc, phmsa, epa, los angeles county district attorney's office and california attorney general's office, have investigated or are investigating this incident. other federal agencies (e.g., the doe and u.s. department of the interior) investigated the incident as part of a joint interagency task force. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the timing of completion of the root cause analysis is under the control of blade energy partners, doggr and the cpuc. as of february 22, 2018, 373 lawsuits, including over 45,000 plaintiffs, are pending in the la superior court against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. these various lawsuits have been coordinated before a single court and will be managed under a second amended master complaint for individual actions, and two consolidated class action complaints. in addition, a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws has been filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers and directors in the sdca. five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. three complaints have also been filed by public entities, including the california attorney general and the county of los angeles. these complaints seek various remedies, including injunctive relief, abatement of the public nuisance, civil penalties, payment of the cost of a longitudinal health study, and money damages, as well as punitive damages and attorneys' fees. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. for a more detailed description of the governmental investigations and civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the costs of defending against the civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with the various investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 47 regulatory proceedings in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. the order establishing the scope of the proceeding expressly excludes issues with respect to air quality, public health, causation, culpability or cost responsibility regarding the leak. section 455.5 of the california public utilities code, among other things, directs regulated utilities to notify the cpuc if all or any portion of a major facility has been out of service for nine consecutive months. although socalgas does not believe the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or any portion of that facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, socalgas provided notification out of an abundance of caution to demonstrate its commitment to regulatory compliance and transparency, and because obtaining authorization to resume injection operations at the facility required more time than initially contemplated. in response, and as required by section 455.5, the cpuc issued an oii to address whether the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or any portion of that facility was out of service for nine consecutive months within the meaning of section 455.5, and if so, whether the cpuc should disallow costs for such period from socalgas' rates. under section 455.5, hearings on the investigation are to be held, if necessary, in conjunction with socalgas' 2019 grc proceeding. if the cpuc determines that all or any portion of the facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, the amount of any refund to ratepayers and the inability to earn a return on those assets could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental orders and additional regulation in december 2015, socalgas made a commitment to mitigate the actual natural gas released from the leak and has been working on a plan to accomplish the mitigation. in march 2016, the carb issued its recommended approach to achieve full mitigation of the emissions from the leak, which includes recommendations that: reductions in short-lived climate pollutants and other greenhouse gases be at least equivalent to the amount of the emissions from the leak, a 20-year global warming potential be used in deriving the amount of reductions required (rather than the 100-year term the carb and other state and federal agencies use in regulating emissions), and all of the mitigation occur in california over the next five to ten years without the use of allowances or offsets. in october 2016, carb issued its final report concluding that the incident resulted in total emissions from 90,350 to 108,950 metric tons of methane, and asserting that socalgas should mitigate 109,000 metric tons of methane to fully mitigate the greenhouse gas impacts of the leak. although we have not agreed with carb's estimate of methane released, we continue to work with carb on developing a mitigation plan. phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb have each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr has issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, may be scheduled, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. beginning october 24, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor of the state of california, and sb 380, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were made in 2017 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. in july 2017, doggr issued an order lifting the prohibition on injection at aliso canyon, subject to certain operational requirements, and socalgas resumed limited injections. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be taken out of service for any meaningful period of time, it could result in an impairment of the facility, significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2017, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility 48 has a net book value of $644 million , including $252 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compressor station. any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' plan for implementing psep, and established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. various psep-related proceedings are regularly pending before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests, which are often challenged by intervening parties. these proceedings are described in more detail in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs. from 2011 through 2017, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested approximately $1.3 billion and $355 million , respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2017, socalgas has received approval for recovery of $33 million . if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. california sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability. the cpuc previously implemented both electric and gas safety enforcement programs whereby electric and gas utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to be in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 49 the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of a more significant fixed charge, could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. as higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, such as rooftop solar, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that establishes comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded tou rates, and implemented a super-user electric surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent within each climate zone. the decision is being implemented over a five-year period from 2015 to 2020, and should result in significant relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020 (but it also sets certain conditions for the implementation of a fixed charge), after the initial reforms are implemented. the establishment of a fixed charge for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers as distributed energy resources could generally reduce delivered volumes and increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. meaningful nem reform must continue to progress to ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to nem customers while minimizing the cost shift (or subsidy) being borne by non-solar customers. due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own electricity using eligible renewable resources (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the proportionate costs not paid by nem customers are therefore subsidized by consumers not participating in nem. in addition, the continuing increase of self-generated solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system. appropriate nem reforms are necessary to help ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations were to increase substantially between 2016 and when more significant reforms take effect in 2019 or later, as described below, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327. the nem program was originally established in 1995 and is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, they receive compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. in january 2016, the cpuc adopted a decision making modest changes to the nem program, which require nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. together with a reduction in tiered rate differentials and the potential implementation of a fixed charge component in 2020, these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary and appropriate. sdg&amp;e implemented the adopted successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the prior nem program. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric 50 distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently closed, but utility customers could receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city of san diego and a few other municipalities are considering the formation of a cca, which, if implemented, could result in the departure of more than half of sdg&amp;e's bundled load. for example, solana beach (representing less than one percent of sdg&amp;e's customer accounts) has elected to begin cca service in 2018. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could be borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf, though appropriate mechanisms to ensure that such costs are properly absorbed are not yet in place. if mechanisms to ensure compliance with state law are not in place at the time of these potentially significant reductions in sdg&amp;e's served load, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of these cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. for example, california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's facilities, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be the cause of one or more fires, the utility could be liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase of wildfires (several catastrophic wildfires occurred in california in late 2017) for reasons such as drought conditions, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and the affected california utility's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. in addition, we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates the increased costs of insurance or the costs of any uninsured losses. sdg&amp;e incurred cpuc-related costs to resolve 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. in december 2012, the cpuc issued a final decision allowing sdg&amp;e to maintain an authorized memorandum account, enabling sdg&amp;e to file applications with the cpuc requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. in september 2015, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc seeking authority to recover such costs in rates over a six- to ten-year period. on december 6, 2017, the cpuc issued a final decision denying sdg&amp;e's request to recover the 2007 wildfire costs submitted in our application. if sdg&amp;e is unsuccessful in its efforts to reverse the final decision through the rehearing and appeals process, the 2007 wildfire costs or costs associated with any future wildfires may not be recoverable. in addition, pending legislation may prohibit recovery of any uninsured wildfire costs in cases of inverse condemnation where california utilities are strictly liable. the failure to recover for 51 the 2007 wildfires or future wildfires could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and the affected california utility's financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we discuss these cost recovery proceedings in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. on june 6, 2013, edison notified sdg&amp;e that it had reached a decision to permanently retire songs and seek approval from the nrc to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains nuclear decommissioning trusts for the purpose of providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. depending on how the irs or the u.s. department of treasury ultimately interprets or alters regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for spent fuel management while edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of spent fuel management costs in litigation against, or in settlements with, the doe. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs, which are costs that may be paid for or reimbursed from a qualified fund. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is waiting for the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs that were or will be incurred in 2016 and subsequent years. until the doe litigation is resolved, and/or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. in november 2014, the cpuc approved the amended settlement agreement that resolved the investigation into the steam generator replacement project that ultimately led to the shut-down of songs. various petitions have since been filed to reopen the settlement. in december 2016, the cpuc issued a ruling directing parties to the songs oii to determine whether an agreement could be reached to modify the amended settlement agreement previously approved by the cpuc, to resolve allegations that unreported ex parte communications between edison and the cpuc resulted in an unfair advantage at the time the settlement agreement was negotiated. in october 2017, the cpuc issued a ruling with respect to the proceeding establishing a process to bring the proceeding to a conclusion and in november 2017, the cpuc held a status conference. in january 2018, the cpuc issued a ruling that further clarified the scope of future evidentiary hearings. this ruling establishes a status conference and includes a preliminary schedule for additional testimony, hearings and briefings. on january 30, 2018, sdg&amp;e, edison, turn, 52 ora and other intervenors entered into a revised settlement agreement. on the same date, the parties filed a joint motion for adoption of the settlement agreement with the cpuc. if approved by the cpuc, the revised settlement agreement will resolve all issues under consideration in the songs oii and will modify the amended settlement agreement. on february 1, 2018, the parties filed a motion to stay the proceedings in the oii pending the cpuc's consideration of the revised settlement agreement. on february 6, 2018, the cpuc issued a ruling granting the parties' motion to stay the proceedings and establishing a tentative procedural schedule with public participation hearings in april and july, evidentiary hearings in april and may and briefing in june of 2018. the timing of a decision from the cpuc on the joint motion for adoption of the settlement agreement is uncertain. we cannot assure that the revised settlement agreement will be adopted or that the amended settlement agreement will not be modified or set aside as a result of this oii proceeding. in connection with the revised settlement agreement, and in exchange for the release of certain songs-related claims, sdg&amp;e and edison entered into an agreement (the utility shareholder agreement) in which edison has agreed to pay sdg&amp;e the amounts that sdg&amp;e would have received in rates under the amended settlement agreement, but will not receive upon implementation of the revised settlement agreement. the utility shareholder agreement is not subject to the approval of the cpuc. however, it is not effective unless and until the cpuc approves the revised settlement agreement. we provide additional detail in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our sempra south american utilities and sempra infrastructure businesses our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. in particular, north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively impact profitability at sempra lng &amp; midstream . unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions seasonality changes in supply and demand transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources commodity production levels actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events expropriation of assets by foreign countries the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. 53 sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of marine and inland liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights-of-way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls work stoppages failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights-of-way equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases adverse weather conditions environmental and geological conditions litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, cameron lng jv is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. the estimated construction, financing and other project 54 costs for the facility are within the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision. if these costs increase above the budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to contribute additional cash. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $3.9 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to the joint venture's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.9 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. in october 2016, the epc contractor indicated that the cameron lng project would not achieve its originally scheduled dates for completion and subsequently provided project schedules reflecting further delays to the cameron lng project. the delays will result in the anticipated earnings and associated cash flows from the cameron lng jv project coming in later than originally anticipated. in december 2017, cameron lng jv entered into a settlement agreement with the epc contractor to settle the contractor's claims (including those resulting from hurricane harvey) that it was owed additional compensation beyond the original contract price and that it was entitled to schedule extensions under the contract. based on a number of factors, we continue to believe it is reasonable to expect that all three lng trains will be producing lng in 2019, though there can be no assurance that this project will not be further delayed. these factors, among others, include the terms of the settlement agreement, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules, the epc contractor's progress to date, the remaining work left to be performed, and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as cameron lng. the inability to complete the project in accordance with the current schedule, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. for additional discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, a brownfield project at our existing eca regasification facility in baja california, mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all of these projects is the risk that global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). in february 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed port arthur lng liquefaction project with an affiliate of woodside petroleum ltd., which replaced a prior agreement between the parties. the project development agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and continues a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the port arthur lng liquefaction project. in june 2017, sempra lng &amp; midstream, woodside petroleum ltd. and korea gas corporation signed a memorandum of understanding that provides a framework for cooperation and joint discussion by the parties 55 regarding key aspects of the potential development of the port arthur lng project, including engineering and construction work, o&amp;m activities, feed gas sourcing, offtake of lng and the potential for korea gas corporation to purchase lng from, and become an equity participant in, the port arthur lng project. the memorandum of understanding does not commit any party to buy or sell lng or otherwise participate in the port arthur liquefaction lng project. also, in may 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream, ienova and a subsidiary of pemex entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca regasification facility in mexico. the agreement specifies how the parties share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial activities associated with developing the potential liquefaction project. pemex's cost-sharing obligations under this agreement ended on december 31, 2017. any decisions by the parties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the formation of these potential joint ventures and the potential development of these projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all of our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, tolling capacity agreements or natural gas supply and lng sales agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all of the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. one of the partners indicated to sempra energy and the other partners that it does not intend to invest additional capital in cameron lng jv with respect to the expansion. as a result, discussions among the partners have occurred, and we are considering a variety of options to attempt to move the expansion project forward. these activities have contributed to delays in developing firm pricing information and securing customer commitments, and there can be no assurance that these issues will be resolved in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely impact the near-term marketing of this project and ability to secure customer commitments. in light of these developments, we are unable to predict whether or when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca facility in mexico is subject to on-going land disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, eca has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in item 1. business and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance. federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies, including the epa and the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior, have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the safe drinking water act and to require 56 disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three train cameron lng facility currently under construction. increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, it is likely that most of these projects will not be completed. finally, as existing contracts expire at our natural gas storage assets in the gulf coast region, we compete with other facilities for storage customers that could continue to support the existing carrying value of these assets, and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to renegotiate trade agreements, such as nafta. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with engie s.a. and affiliates of mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co. ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or 57 natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our natural gas storage assets include operational and development assets at bay gas in alabama and mississippi hub in mississippi, as well as our development project, la storage in louisiana. la storage could be positioned to support lng export from the cameron lng jv terminal and other liquefaction projects, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. however, changes in the u.s. natural gas market could also lead to diminished natural gas storage values. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas and mississippi hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. future investment in bay gas, mississippi hub and la storage will depend on market demand and estimates of long-term storage values. our la storage development project construction permit expired in june 2017 and future development will require approval of a new construction permit by the ferc. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not contracted. market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their carrying value. to the extent the carrying value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. the carrying value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2017 was $1.5 billion. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we provide information about these matters in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our eca lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the eca lng terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very 58 difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation, electricity generation, and lng and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses adverse changes in market conditions and inadequate enforcement of regulations high rates of inflation volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law changes in government policies or personnel trade restrictions limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries permitting and regulatory compliance changes in labor supply and labor relations adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions expropriation of assets destruction of property or assets adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate general political, social, economic and business conditions compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws valuation of goodwill theft of assets our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may 59 not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. risks related to the pending acquisition of energy future holdings corp. in this risk factors section, we sometimes refer to sempra energy, after giving effect to the assumed completion of the merger, as the combined company. our pending acquisition of efh, including efh's 80.03 percent indirect interest in oncor, is subject to various conditions, including the receipt of governmental and regulatory approvals, which approvals may impose onerous conditions, and is subject to other risks and uncertainties that could cause the merger to be abandoned, delayed or restructured and/or materially adversely affect sempra energy. sempra energy, efh and oncor have not obtained all the governmental and regulatory consents, approvals and rulings required to complete the merger, including approval from the puct, among others. these and other governmental and regulatory authorities may not provide the consents, approvals and rulings that are conditions to the merger or that are otherwise necessary for oncor's operations after the merger, could seek to block or challenge the merger, or may impose certain requirements or obligations as conditions to their approval. the agreements governing the merger may require us to accept conditions from these regulators that could materially adversely impact the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. if the required governmental consents, approvals and rulings are not received, or if they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the agreements governing the merger, then neither sempra energy, efh nor oncor will be obligated to complete the merger. sempra energy and efh have determined that the merger is not subject to the premerger notification requirements of the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended (the hsr act). even though sempra energy and efh have determined that the merger is not subject to the hsr act, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger or compel divestiture of a portion of the combined company if they deem it necessary or desirable in the public interest to do so. in addition, in some jurisdictions, a private party could initiate an action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. as a result, actions taken by governmental authorities or private parties, both before or after completion of the merger, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects or may result in conditions or requirements that lead to abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. we can provide no assurance that the various closing conditions will be satisfied and that the required governmental and other necessary approvals will be obtained, or that any required conditions to such approvals will not materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company following the merger. in addition, it is possible that any conditions to such approvals will result in the abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. the occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects, whether or not the merger is completed. completion of the merger is also subject to a number of other risks and uncertainties that, among other things, may alter the proposed structure and ultimate financing for the merger, result in changes in or impose other limitations or conditions on the business of the combined company following the merger or have other effects that may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company if the merger is consummated or may lead to abandonment, delay or restructuring of the merger. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. other parties may offer to acquire efh or oncor on terms that are more favorable to efh than the terms of the merger agreement. under the terms of the merger agreement, efh or its subsidiary efih may terminate the merger agreement in certain circumstances if either of their respective boards of directors determines in its sole discretion, after consultation with their independent financial advisors and outside legal counsel, that the failure to terminate the merger agreement is inconsistent with their fiduciary duties, which may allow them to terminate the merger agreement in order to accept an offer from another party. if the merger is not completed, we will not realize the potential benefits of the merger, but will still be required to pay the substantial costs incurred in connection with pursuing the merger. if the merger is not completed, these and other factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. 60 efh could incur substantial tax liabilities related to its 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh, which would reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016 efh distributed all of the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. irs private letter rulings are generally binding on the irs, but the continuing validity of that ruling, as well as the tax opinions received, are subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions, as well as the performance by efh and vistra of certain undertakings, made to the irs in connection with obtaining the ruling and to counsel in connection with their opinions. if any of the factual representations or assumptions in the irs private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) were untrue or incomplete, any such undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs private letter ruling or tax opinions were based are different from the actual facts relating to the spin-off, the tax opinions and/or irs private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the spin-off did not qualify for the intended tax treatment, efh could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh if the merger is completed and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. due to the risks posed by the spin-off not qualifying for the intended tax treatment, we have required, as an express condition to closing of the merger, that efh must receive a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs as well as tax opinions of counsel to sempra energy and efh that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. in november 2017, efh received the supplemental private letter ruling from the irs that provides that the merger will not affect the tax-free treatment of the spinoff. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are and will be based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, efh could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value of our investment in efh if the merger is completed and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, efh has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. failure by oncor to successfully execute its business strategy and objectives may materially adversely affect the future results of the combined company and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including delivering electricity in a safe and reliable manner, minimizing service interruptions and investing in its transmission and distribution infrastructure to maintain its system, serve its growing customer base with a modernized grid, and support energy production. these objectives are capital intensive. see below under oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, and the merger may materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger, and the combined company could continue to incur substantial costs as a result of the merger. we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, including fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors. moreover, if the merger is completed, the combined company will incur 61 substantial costs in connection with the merger, including fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations prior to completion of the merger and of the combined company following the completion of the merger. we have issued equity securities to fund a significant portion of the merger consideration and may issue additional equity securities after the merger to reduce our indebtedness, which may dilute the economic and voting interests of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock and preferred stock. under the merger agreement, we are required to pay merger consideration of $9.45 billion, payable in cash. in january 2018, we completed the offering of 23,364,486 shares of our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements (the forward sale agreements) and directly issued 3,504,672 shares of our common stock to the underwriters in the offering to raise proceeds to fund a portion of the merger consideration. we did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of our common stock pursuant to the forward sale agreements. we expect to settle a portion of the forward sale agreements and receive cash proceeds, subject to certain adjustments, from the sale of shares of our common stock concurrently with, or prior to, the closing of the merger. we expect to settle the remaining portion of the forward sale agreements after the merger, if completed, in multiple settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019, in each case entirely by physical delivery of shares of our common stock in exchange for cash proceeds. in addition, in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series a (the mandatory convertible preferred stock ), which we expect will ultimately convert into common stock. some of these equity issuances, including common stock issued upon settlement of the forward sale agreements, will likely occur following the merger to repay outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness we have incurred and expect to incur in connection with the merger. see below under we have incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger and will likely incur additional indebtedness related the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. although the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we may in fact issue fewer shares of any equity securities than anticipated, the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock) will have the effect, and the issuance of additional equity securities may have the effect, of diluting the economic and voting interests of our shareholders. in addition, the issuance of additional shares of common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock) without a commensurate increase in our consolidated earnings would dilute, and the issuance of additional equity securities could dilute, our earnings per common share. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. we have incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger and will likely incur additional indebtedness related to the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. we have incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. in january 2018, we issued $5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes in various series that mature between 2019 and 2048, and we expect to issue up to $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of commercial paper, although we may reduce the amount of commercial paper by borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and cash from operations, to initially fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. moreover, although we intend to use equity financing after completion of the merger to repay a portion of the indebtedness incurred to finance the merger and associated transaction costs, to the extent we are unable to do so, the amount of indebtedness we have incurred to finance the merger and associated transaction costs will be higher than currently anticipated. accordingly, our debt service obligations resulting from such additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. our increased indebtedness could make it more difficult and/or costly for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic and industry conditions, because a decrease in revenues or increase in costs could cause cash flow from operations to be insufficient to make scheduled debt service payments; limit our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate and, consequently, put us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; require a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; result in a downgrade in the credit ratings on our indebtedness (including as discussed above under risks related to sempra energy certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook, which may 62 adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. ), which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds, increase the interest rates under our credit facilities and under any new indebtedness we may incur, and reduce the trading prices of our outstanding debt securities, common stock and preferred stock; make it more difficult for us to raise capital to fund working capital, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, pursue strategic initiatives or for other purposes; result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our current or future borrowings subject to variable rates of interest; require that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might include, for example, limitations on additional borrowings; and result in specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibitions or limitations on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. based on the current and expected results of operations and financial condition of sempra energy and our subsidiaries and the currently anticipated financing structure for the merger, we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with the proceeds from borrowings, issuances of equity and debt securities, distributions from our equity method investments, project financing and equity sales (including tax equity and partnering in joint ventures) will generate sufficient cash on a consolidated basis to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under sempra energy's and our current subsidiaries' existing credit facilities, indentures and other instruments governing their outstanding indebtedness and under the indebtedness that we have incurred and that we may incur to fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. however, our expectation is subject to numerous estimates, assumptions and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to make such payments of principal and interest or repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations when due. oncor and its subsidiaries will not guarantee any indebtedness of sempra energy or any of our other subsidiaries, nor will any of them have any obligation to provide funds (nor will we have any ability to require them to provide funds), whether in the form of dividends, loans or otherwise, to enable sempra energy to pay dividends on its common stock or mandatory convertible preferred stock or to enable our other subsidiaries to make required debt service payments, particularly in light of the ring-fencing arrangements described below under certain ring-fencing measures and other existing governance mechanisms will limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. as a result, the merger will substantially increase our debt service obligations without any assurance that we will receive any cash from oncor or any of its subsidiaries to assist us in servicing our indebtedness, paying dividends on our common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock or meeting our other cash needs. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of our indebtedness outstanding following the merger. we may seek to reduce this indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, other equity securities, and the settlement of sales of our common stock pursuant to our forward sale agreements, cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales, which may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. however, our ability to raise additional equity financing after completion of the merger will be subject to market conditions and a number of other risks and uncertainties, including whether the results of operations of the combined company meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities after the merger on terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness after the merger, should we elect to do so, to a level that permits us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings. the merger may not positively affect our results of operations and may cause a decrease in our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we anticipate that the merger, if consummated on the terms and under our financing structure, will have a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations. this expectation is based on current market conditions and is subject to a number of assumptions, estimates, projections and other uncertainties, including assumptions regarding the results of operations of the combined company after the merger and the relative mix and timing of debt and equity financing necessary to ultimately fund the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. this expectation also assumes that oncor will perform in accordance with our expectations, and there can be no assurance that this will occur. in addition, we may encounter additional transaction costs and costs to manage our investment in oncor, may fail to realize some or any of the benefits anticipated in the merger, may be subject to currently unknown liabilities as a result of the merger, or may be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. as a result, there can be no assurance that the merger will positively impact our results of operations, and it is possible that the merger may have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects or may cause our earnings per share to decrease, any of which may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. 63 certain ring-fencing measures and other existing governance mechanisms will limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. efh and oncor implemented various ring-fencing measures in 2007 to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence has created both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and efh and its affiliates and other subsidiaries, on the other hand. pursuant to the agreements related to the merger, existing governance mechanisms, and commitments that we made as part of our application to the puct for approval of the merger and the related stipulation with key stakeholders in the proceeding, we have committed to certain ring-fencing measures and will be subject to certain restrictions following the merger. these measures, governance mechanisms and restrictions include the following, among other things: following consummation of the merger, the board of directors of oncor will consist of thirteen members, seven of which will be independent directors in all material respects under the rules of the new york stock exchange in relation to sempra energy and its subsidiaries and affiliated entities and any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings (and those directors must have no material relationship with sempra energy or its affiliates, or any other entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, at the time of the merger or within the previous 10 years), two of which will be designated by sempra energy, two of which will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, which is an investment vehicle owned by third parties unaffiliated with efh and sempra energy and that owns approximately 19.75 percent of the outstanding membership interests in oncor, and two of which will be members of oncor management, initially robert s. shapard and e. allen nye, jr., who no later than the closing of the merger will be the chair of the oncor board and chief executive officer of oncor, respectively. in addition, oncor holdings will also continue to have a majority of independent directors following the consummation of the merger; if the credit rating on oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; we have agreed to make, within 60 days after the merger, our proportionate share of the aggregate equity investment in oncor in an amount necessary for oncor to achieve a capital structure consisting of 57.5 percent long-term debt and 42.5 percent equity, as calculated for regulatory purposes; oncor may not pay dividends or make any other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) to its owners, including sempra energy, if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements (including continuing compliance with its debt-to-equity ratio required by the puct described above); certain transactions, including certain mergers and sales of substantially all assets, changes to the dividend policy and declarations of bankruptcy and liquidation, require the approval of all, or in certain circumstances a majority, of the independent directors of oncor and at least one, or in certain circumstances both, of the directors appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti; and there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from efh and efh's owners, such as a prohibition on oncor providing guarantees or security for debt of efh or sempra energy. pursuant to the stipulation, the current independent directors for oncor and oncor holdings will continue to serve for three years following the closing of the merger, and thereafter two of these independent directors will cease to be members of their respective boards every two years. each subsequent independent director will be elected for a term of four years. the stipulation also provides that oncor holdings will have a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors, who will nominate the independent director board member candidates of oncor and oncor holdings, subject to approval by a majority of the remaining independent directors of oncor holdings. if any independent director is removed, retires or is unable to serve, the stipulation provides that a replacement independent director must be chosen by the nominating committee of oncor holdings and approved by a majority of the remaining independent directors of oncor holdings. under the stipulation, the duties of the board members of oncor and oncor holdings will be to act in the best interests of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law. any future changes to the size, composition, structure or rights of the boards of oncor and oncor holdings must first be approved by the puct. accordingly, we will not control oncor or oncor holdings and will have only a limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor, including the deployment or disposition of oncor assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate actions and issues. the existence of these ring-fencing measures may increase our costs of financing and operating efh and its subsidiaries. further, the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent they 64 take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined company may be materially adversely affected. certain key personnel at oncor may choose to depart oncor prior to, upon completion of or shortly after the merger, and any loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect the future business and operations of oncor and the anticipated benefits of the merger. if, despite efforts to retain certain key personnel at oncor, any key personnel depart or fail to continue employment as a result of the merger, the loss of the services of such personnel and their experience and knowledge could adversely affect oncor's results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the successful ongoing operation of its business, which could also have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company after completion of the merger. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect the combined company. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and prospects, which could materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company after the merger. oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements or if its credit ratings at closing by any one of the three major rating agencies are below the ratings as of june 30, 2017, we may be required to make additional investments in oncor or if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects after the merger. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may be required to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. the market value of our common stock could decline if our existing shareholders sell large amounts of our common stock in anticipation of or following the merger, and the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities may be affected by factors following the merger that are different from those affecting the market prices for our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities prior to the merger. following the merger, shareholders of sempra energy will own interests in a combined company operating an expanded business with more assets and more indebtedness. current shareholders of sempra energy may not wish to continue to invest in the combined company, or may wish to reduce their investment in the combined company, for a number of reasons, which may include loss of confidence in the ability of the combined company to execute its business strategies, to comply with institutional investing guidelines, to increase diversification or to track any rebalancing of stock indices in which sempra energy common stock is included. if, before or following the merger, large amounts of sempra energy common stock are sold, the market price of our common stock could decline. in addition, we are more exposed to rising interest rates due to our use of floating rate notes and significant increase in the amount of debt outstanding to finance the merger. if the merger is consummated, the risks associated with the combined company may affect the results of operations of the combined company and the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities following the merger differently than they affected such results of operations and market prices prior to the merger. additionally, the results of operations of the combined company may be affected by additional or different risks than those that currently affect the results of operations of sempra energy. any of the foregoing matters could materially adversely affect the market prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities following the merger. settlement provisions contained in our equity forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, we completed the offering of 23,364,486 shares of our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements (the forward sale agreements) to raise proceeds to fund a portion of the merger consideration. the counterparties to the forward sale 65 agreements (the forward purchasers) will have the right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and require us to physically settle the forward sale agreements on a date specified by the forward purchasers if: they are unable to establish, maintain or unwind their hedge position with respect to the forward sale agreements; they determine that they are unable to, or it is commercially impracticable for them to, continue to borrow a number of shares of our common stock equal to the number of shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements or that, with respect to borrowing such number of shares of our common stock, they would incur a rate that is greater than the borrow cost specified in the forward sale agreements, subject to a prior notice requirement; we declare or pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock in an amount in excess of amounts, or at a time before, those prescribed by the forward sale agreements or declare or pay certain other types of dividends or distributions on shares of our common stock; an event is announced that, if consummated, would result in an extraordinary event (including certain mergers and tender offers, our nationalization, our insolvency and the delisting of the shares of our common stock); an ownership event (as such term is defined in the forward sale agreements) occurs; or certain other events of default, termination events or other specified events occur, including, among other things, a change in law. the forward purchasers' decision to exercise their right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and to require us to settle the forward sale agreements will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the forward sale agreements irrespective of our capital needs, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our mandatory convertible preferred stock, any other equity that we may issue, and our debt securities. the forward sale agreements provide for settlement on a settlement date or dates to be specified at our discretion, but which we expect to occur in multiple settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019. subject to the provisions of the forward sale agreements, delivery of our shares upon physical or net share settlement of the forward sale agreements will result in dilution to our earnings per share and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, mandatory convertible preferred stock and any other equity that we may issue. we may elect, subject to certain conditions, cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements if we conclude that it is in our interest to do so. for example, we may conclude that it is in our interest to cash settle or net share settle the forward sale agreements if the merger does not close or if we otherwise have no current use for all or a portion of the net proceeds due upon physical settlement of the forward sale agreements. if we elect to cash or net share settle all or a portion of the shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements, we would expect the forward purchasers or one of their affiliates to purchase the number of shares necessary, based on the number of shares with respect to which we have elected cash or net share settlement, in order to satisfy their obligation to return the shares of our common stock they had borrowed in connection with sales of our common stock related to our january 2018 common stock offering and, if applicable in connection with net share settlement, to deliver shares of our common stock to us or take into account shares of our common stock to be delivered by us, as applicable. the purchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers or their affiliates to unwind the forward purchasers' hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase over time, thereby increasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that we would owe to the forward purchasers upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements, or decreasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that the forward purchasers owe us upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements. dividend requirements associated with the mandatory convertible preferred stock sempra energy issued to finance a portion of the merger consideration subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, sempra energy issued 17,250,000 shares of its mandatory convertible preferred stock. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on the mandatory convertible preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and investments to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or 66 repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock further provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock (i) have not been declared and paid, or (ii) have been declared but a sum of cash or number of shares of our common stock sufficient for payment thereof has not been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date, in each case, for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other classes or series of our preferred stock ranking equally with the mandatory convertible preferred stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up and having similar voting rights, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20 -percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is $997 million at december 31, 2017 . at december 31, 2017 , sempra renewables had investments totaling $813 million in several joint ventures to operate renewable generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in a joint venture with a subsidiary of transcanada to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50 -percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california , and a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. at december 31, 2017 , these various joint venture investments by sempra mexico totaled $624 million . sempra energy has an investment balance of $67 million at december 31, 2017 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the rbs sempra commodities partnership as it is dissolved. the timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 4 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 3, 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. 67 impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2017, sempra energy had approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.8 percent of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we discuss properties related to our electric, natural gas and energy infrastructure operations in item 1. business and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other properties sempra energy occupies its 16-story corporate headquarters building in san diego, california, pursuant to a 25-year, build-to-suit lease that expires in 2040. the lease has five five-year renewal options. we discuss the details of this lease further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. socalgas leases approximately one-fourth of a 52-story office building in downtown los angeles, california, pursuant to an operating lease expiring in 2026. the lease has four five-year renewal options. sdg&amp;e occupies a six-building office complex in san diego, california, pursuant to two separate operating leases, both ending in 2024. one lease has two five-year renewal options and the other lease has three five-year renewal options. sempra south american utilities owns or leases office facilities at various locations in chile and peru, with the leases ending from 2022 to 2024. sempra infrastructure owns or leases office facilities at various locations in the u.s. and mexico, with the leases ending from 2018 to 2027. we own or lease other land, warehouses, offices, operating and maintenance centers, shops, service facilities and equipment necessary to conduct our businesses. item 3. legal proceedings we are not party to, and our property is not the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our businesses) except for the matters (1) described in notes 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, (2) referred to in item 1a. risk factors or (3) referred to in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance . item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 68 part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities common stock and related shareholder matters sempra energy common stock our common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange. at february 22, 2018, there were approximately 26,676 record holders of our common stock. the following table shows sempra energy quarterly common stock data: quarterly common stock data first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter 2017 market price: high $ 113.15 $ 117.97 $ 120.17 $ 122.98 low $ 99.71 $ 107.86 $ 110.35 $ 105.03 2016 market price: high $ 104.70 $ 114.03 $ 114.66 $ 109.42 low $ 86.72 $ 100.40 $ 102.15 $ 92.95 we declared dividends of $0.8225 per share and $0.755 per share in each quarter of 2017 and 2016, respectively. on february 22, 2018, our board of directors approved an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.895 per share ($3.58 annually), an increase of $0.0725 per share ($0.29 annually) from $0.8225 per share ($3.29 annually) authorized in february 2017. socalgas and sdg&amp;e common stock information concerning dividend declarations for socalgas and sdg&amp;e is included in their statements of changes in shareholders' equity and statements of changes in equity, respectively, set forth in the consolidated financial statements. dividend restrictions the payment and the amount of future dividends for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, and socalgas are within the discretion of their boards of directors. the cpuc's regulation of the california utilities' capital structures limits the amounts that the california utilities can pay sempra energy in the form of loans and dividends. we discuss these matters in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in restricted net assets and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations capital resources and liquidity dividends. performance graph comparative total shareholder returns the following graph compares the percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on sempra energy common stock for the five-year period ended december 31, 2017, with the performance over the same period of the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p 500 utilities index. these returns were calculated assuming an initial investment of $100 in our common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p 500 utilities index on december 31, 2012, and the reinvestment of all dividends. 69 sempra energy equity compensation plans sempra energy has a long-term incentive plan that permits the grant of a wide variety of equity and equity-based incentive awards to directors, officers and key employees. at december 31, 2017, outstanding awards consisted of stock options and rsus held by 428 employees. the following table sets forth information regarding our equity compensation plan at december 31, 2017. equity compensation plan number of shares to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (1) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2) number of additional shares remaining available for future issuance (3) equity compensation plan approved by shareholders: 2013 long-term incentive plan 2,183,313 $ 50.30 5,589,925 (1) consists of 195,801 options to purchase shares of our common stock, all of which were granted at an exercise price equal to 100 percent of the grant date fair market value of the shares subject to the option, 1,701,617 performance-based rsus and 285,895 service-based rsus. each performance-based rsu represents the right to receive from zero to 1.5 shares (2.0 shares for awards granted during or after 2014) of our common stock if applicable performance conditions are satisfied. the 2,183,313 shares also include awards granted under two previously shareholder-approved long-term incentive plans (predecessor plans). no new awards may be granted under these predecessor plans. (2) represents only the weighted-average exercise price of the 195,801 outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock. (3) the number of shares available for future issuance is increased by the number of shares to which the participant would otherwise be entitled that are withheld or surrendered to satisfy the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations relating to any plan awards, and is also increased by the number of shares subject to awards that expire or are forfeited, canceled or otherwise terminated without the issuance of shares. we provide additional discussion of share-based compensation in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 70 purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers on september 11, 2007, the sempra energy board of directors authorized the repurchase of sempra energy common stock provided that the amounts spent for such purpose do not exceed the greater of $2 billion or amounts spent to purchase no more than 40 million shares. no shares have been repurchased under this authorization since 2011. approximately $500 million remains authorized by our board of directors for the purchase of additional shares, not to exceed approximately 12 million shares. we also may, from time to time, purchase shares of our common stock to which participants would otherwise be entitled from long-term incentive plan participants who elect to sell a sufficient number of shares in connection with the vesting of rsus in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. item 6. selected financial data five-year summaries the following tables present selected financial data of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas for the five years ended december 31, 2017. the data is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of each company. you should read this information in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and notes contained in this annual report on form 10-k. 71 five-year summary of selected financial data sempra energy consolidated (in millions, except per share amounts) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 revenues utilities: electric $ 5,415 $ 5,211 $ 5,158 $ 5,209 $ 4,911 natural gas 4,361 4,050 4,096 4,549 4,398 energy-related businesses 1,431 922 977 1,277 1,248 total revenues $ 11,207 $ 10,183 $ 10,231 $ 11,035 $ 10,557 income from continuing operations $ 351 $ 1,519 $ 1,448 $ 1,262 $ 1,088 earnings from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (94 ) (148 ) (98 ) (100 ) (79 ) call premium on preferred stock of subsidiary (3 ) preferred dividends of subsidiaries (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (5 ) earnings/income from continuing operations attributable to common shares $ 256 $ 1,370 $ 1,349 $ 1,161 $ 1,001 attributable to common shares: earnings/income from continuing operations basic $ 1.02 $ 5.48 $ 5.43 $ 4.72 $ 4.10 diluted $ 1.01 $ 5.46 $ 5.37 $ 4.63 $ 4.01 dividends declared per common share $ 3.29 $ 3.02 $ 2.80 $ 2.64 $ 2.52 return on common equity 2.0 % 11.1 % 11.7 % 10.4 % 9.4 % effective income tax rate 81 % 21 % 20 % 20 % 26 % price range of common shares: high $ 122.98 $ 114.66 $ 116.21 $ 116.30 $ 93.00 low $ 99.71 $ 86.72 $ 89.44 $ 86.73 $ 70.61 weighted-average rate base: sdg&amp;e $ 8,549 $ 8,019 $ 7,671 $ 7,253 $ 7,244 socalgas $ 5,493 $ 4,775 $ 4,269 $ 3,879 $ 3,499 at december 31 current assets $ 3,341 $ 3,110 $ 2,891 $ 4,184 $ 3,997 total assets $ 50,454 $ 47,786 $ 41,150 $ 39,651 $ 37,165 current liabilities $ 6,635 $ 5,927 $ 4,612 $ 5,069 $ 4,369 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (1) $ 16,445 $ 14,429 $ 13,134 $ 12,086 $ 11,174 short-term debt (2) $ 2,967 $ 2,692 $ 1,529 $ 2,202 $ 1,692 sempra energy shareholders' equity $ 12,670 $ 12,951 $ 11,809 $ 11,326 $ 11,008 common shares outstanding 251.4 250.2 248.3 246.3 244.5 book value per share $ 50.40 $ 51.77 $ 47.56 $ 45.98 $ 45.03 (1) includes capital lease obligations. (2) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of capital lease obligations. in 2017, sempra energy's income tax expense included $870 million related to the impact of the tcja, as we discuss in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations income taxes. in 2017, we recorded a charge of $208 million (after-tax) for the write-off of sdg&amp;e's wildfire regulatory asset, which we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017 and 2016, sempra mexico recognized impairment charges of $47 million (after noncontrolling interests) and $90 million (after-tax and after noncontrolling interests), respectively, related to assets held for sale at tdm. we discuss the impairments in notes 3 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2016, we recorded a $350 million (after-tax and noncontrolling interest) noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of sempra mexico's equity interest in ienova pipelines (formerly known as gdc). 72 in 2016 and 2013, ienova completed private offerings in the u.s. and outside of mexico and a concurrent public offering in mexico of common stock. in 2014, cameron lng jv, a joint venture between sempra lng &amp; midstream and its partners in the cameron lng liquefaction project, became effective. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the joint venture under the equity method. we discuss cameron lng jv further in item 1. business, in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors influencing future performance and in notes 3 and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2013, we recorded a $119 million (after-tax) loss from plant closure related to sdg&amp;e's investment in songs. we discuss songs further in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss litigation and other contingencies in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. five-year summaries of selected financial data sdg&amp;e and socalgas (dollars in millions) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 sdg&amp;e: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 4,476 $ 4,253 $ 4,219 $ 4,329 $ 4,066 operating income 713 990 1,058 959 782 dividends on preferred stock 4 earnings attributable to common shares 407 570 587 507 404 balance sheet data: total assets $ 17,844 $ 17,719 $ 16,515 $ 16,260 $ 15,337 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (1) 5,335 4,658 4,455 4,283 4,485 short-term debt (2) 473 191 218 611 88 sdg&amp;e shareholder's equity 5,598 5,641 5,223 4,932 4,628 socalgas: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 3,785 $ 3,471 $ 3,489 $ 3,855 $ 3,736 operating income 622 557 608 521 539 dividends on preferred stock 1 1 1 1 1 earnings attributable to common shares 396 349 419 332 364 balance sheet data: total assets $ 14,159 $ 13,424 $ 12,104 $ 10,446 $ 9,138 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (1) 2,485 2,982 2,481 1,891 1,150 short-term debt (2) 617 62 9 50 294 socalgas shareholders' equity 3,907 3,510 3,149 2,781 2,549 (1) includes capital lease obligations. (2) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of capital lease obligations. in 2017, sdg&amp;e recorded a charge of $208 million (after-tax) for the write-off of its wildfire regulatory asset. in 2013, sdg&amp;e recorded a $119 million (after-tax) loss from plant closure related to its investment in songs. we discuss litigation and other contingencies in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 73 key events and issues in 2017 below are key events and issues that affected our business in 2017 ; some of these may continue to affect our future results. in june 2017, sempra mexico reduced the carrying value of tdm by recognizing an impairment charge ($47 million earnings impact). in july 2017, sempra renewables acquired the great valley solar project located in fresno county, california for initial cash consideration of $124 million, with an expected investment totaling $375 million to $425 million once fully constructed. in august 2017, sempra energy entered into a merger agreement to acquire efh, the indirect owner of an 80.03-percent interest in oncor, for the merger consideration of $9.45 billion in cash. we expect the merger to close in the first half of 2018. in september 2017, sdg&amp;e recognized a charge for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs ($208 million earnings impact). in november 2017, ienova purchased the remaining 50-percent interest in den, which owns a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline through tag, for total consideration of $165 million, plus the assumption of $96 million of short-term debt. in december 2017, cameron lng jv entered into a settlement agreement with its epc contractor for the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. we discuss the agreement below in factors influencing future performance cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project. in december 2017, the tcja was signed into law, resulting in an $870 million increase in income tax expense at sempra energy consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2017 from the effects of the tcja. we discuss the impact of the tcja below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes and in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. socalgas has resumed injections and withdrawals, on a limited basis, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. as of december 31, 2017, socalgas' cost estimate is $913 million related to the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak, which includes $887 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. results of operations in 2017 , our earnings decreased by approximately $1.1 billion ( 81% ) to $256 million and our diluted eps decreased by $4.45 per share ( 82% ) to $1.01 per share. in 2016 compared to 2015 , our earnings increased by $21 million ( 2% ) to $1.4 billion and our diluted eps increased by $0.09 per share ( 2% ) to $5.46 per share. our earnings and diluted eps were impacted by variances discussed in segment results below and by the items included in the table sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share, also below. 74 segment results the following section presents earnings (losses) by sempra energy segment, as well as parent and other, and the related discussion of the changes in segment earnings (losses). variance amounts presented are the after-tax earnings impact (based on applicable statutory tax rates), unless otherwise noted, and before noncontrolling interests, where applicable. sempra energy earnings (losses) by segment (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 sempra utilities: sdg&amp;e $ 407 $ 570 $ 587 socalgas (1) 396 349 419 sempra south american utilities 186 156 175 sempra infrastructure: sempra mexico 169 463 213 sempra renewables 252 55 63 sempra lng &amp; midstream 150 (107 ) 44 parent and other (2) (1,304 ) (116 ) (152 ) earnings $ 256 $ 1,370 $ 1,349 (1) after preferred dividends. (2) includes $1,165 million income tax expense from the effects of the tcja in 2017, and after-tax interest expense ($170 million in 2017, $169 million in 2016 and $157 million in 2015), intercompany eliminations recorded in consolidation and certain corporate costs . sempra utilities sdg&amp;e the decrease in earnings of $163 million ( 29% ) in 2017 was primarily due to: $208 million charge for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs, which we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $28 million unfavorable impact from the remeasurement of certain u.s. federal deferred income tax assets from 35 percent to 21 percent as a result of the tcja; and $7 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; offset by $31 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $27 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2017 and lower non-refundable operating costs; $17 million increase in afudc related to equity; and $8 million favorable impact in 2017 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items. the decrease in earnings of $17 million ( 3% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $31 million of charges associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $15 million reduction to the loss from plant closure in 2015 primarily based on the cpuc approval of a compliance filing related to sdg&amp;e's authorized recovery of its investment in songs pursuant to an amended settlement agreement approved by the cpuc in 2014; $9 million lower favorable impact in 2016 related to the resolution of prior years' income tax items; and $7 million lower earnings from electric transmission primarily due to lower formulaic revenues associated with lower borrowing costs; offset by $23 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2016, including lower generation major maintenance costs, and lower non-refundable operating costs; $9 million increase in afudc related to equity; $7 million income tax benefit associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; and $7 million lower net interest expense. 75 socalgas the increase in earnings of $47 million ( 13% ) in 2017 was primarily due to: $49 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $16 million higher earnings associated with the psep and advanced metering assets; and $13 million impairment of assets in 2016 related to the southern gas system reliability project (also referred to as the north-south pipeline); offset by $20 million for aliso canyon litigation reserves; and $4 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. the decrease in earnings of $70 million ( 17% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $49 million of charges associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $16 million charge associated with tracking the 2016 income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd; $16 million lower favorable impact in 2016 related to the resolution of prior years' income tax items; $13 million impairment of assets related to the southern gas system reliability project; $13 million lower regulatory awards; $11 million of earnings in 2015 from a cpuc-approved retroactive increase in authorized grc revenue requirement for years 2012 through 2014 due to increased rate base; and $8 million higher net interest expense primarily due to debt issuances in the second quarter of 2015; offset by $27 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2016, and lower non-refundable operating costs; and $23 million higher earnings associated with the psep and advanced metering assets. sempra south american utilities because our operations in south america use their local currency as their functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at average exchange rates for the period for consolidation in sempra energy consolidated's results of operations. the year-to-year variances discussed below are as adjusted for the difference in foreign currency translation rates between years. we discuss these and other foreign currency effects below in impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations. the increase in earnings of $30 million ( 19% ) in 2017 was primarily due to: $16 million lower income tax expense, including $17 million income tax expense in 2016 related to peruvian tax reform, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes; $8 million higher earnings from operations primarily due to an increase in rates and lower operating expenses at luz del sur ; and $6 million higher earnings from foreign currency translation effects. the decrease in earnings of $19 million ( 11% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $15 million higher income tax expense, including $17 million related to peruvian tax reform; $9 million lower earnings from foreign currency translation effects; $7 million business interruption insurance proceeds in 2015 for the santa teresa hydroelectric power plant, which was expected to begin commercial operation in september 2014, but did not commence operation until september 2015 due to construction delays; and $3 million lower capitalized interest primarily due to completion of construction of the santa teresa hydroelectric power plant in 2015; offset by $10 million higher earnings from operations mainly due to the start of operations of the santa teresa hydroelectric power plant in september 2015. sempra infrastructure sempra mexico the decrease in earnings of $294 million in 2017 was primarily due to: 76 $432 million noncash gain in 2016 associated with the remeasurement of our equity interest in ienova pipelines (formerly known as gdc); $36 million favorable impact in 2016 due to $55 million favorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $19 million loss from foreign currency derivatives, which we use to hedge sempra mexico's foreign currency exposure from its controlling interest in ienova, compared to $35 million unfavorable impact in 2017 due to $84 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $49 million gain from foreign currency derivatives. we discuss these effects below in impact of foreign currency and inflation rate on results of operations; $28 million higher income tax expense in 2017 mainly related to a deferred income tax liability on an outside basis difference in joint venture investments; and $28 million higher interest expense, including $19 million at ventika and $8 million at ienova pipelines related to debt assumed in their respective acquisitions; offset by $98 million higher pipeline operational earnings, primarily attributable to the increase in ownership in ienova pipelines from 50 percent to 100 percent in september 2016 and from other pipeline assets placed in service; $73 million earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests at ienova in 2017, compared to $133 million in 2016, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; $71 million impairment in 2017 of tdm assets held for sale, net of a $12 million income tax benefit that has been fully reserved, compared to a $111 million impairment in 2016 of such assets; $34 million higher operational earnings in 2017 from sempra mexico's renewables business, primarily due to ventika, which we acquired in december 2016; and $8 million tax benefit in 2017 from a reduction to the outside basis deferred tax liability on our investment in the tdm natural gas-fired power plant that is held for sale, compared to an $8 million tax expense in 2016. the increase in earnings of $250 million in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $432 million noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of our 50-percent equity interest in ienova pipelines; $20 million incremental earnings from the increase in our ownership interest in ienova pipelines from 50 percent to 100 percent in september 2016; and $8 million increase in earnings from our natural gas local distribution company mainly associated with new distribution rates; offset by $111 million impairment of tdm assets held for sale; $80 million increase in earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests at ienova; $36 million favorable impact in 2016, compared to $49 million favorable impact in 2015 due primarily to transactional effects from foreign currency and inflation, including amounts in equity earnings from our joint ventures; and $8 million deferred income tax expense on our investment in tdm as a result of management's decision to hold the asset for sale. sempra renewables the increase in earnings of $197 million in 2017 was primarily due to: $192 million favorable impact from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities from 35 percent to 21 percent as a result of the tcja; and $14 million higher earnings from our solar tax equity investments, including $19 million of higher pretax losses attributed to solar tax equity investors reflected in noncontrolling interests, offset by $7 million associated income taxes; offset by $6 million higher general and administrative and development costs. the decrease in earnings of $8 million ( 13% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $12 million lower solar itcs from projects placed in service in 2015; and $5 million gain in 2015 from the sale of the rosamond solar development project; offset by $8 million higher earnings from increased production at our wind and solar assets. sempra lng &amp; midstream the increase of $257 million in 2017 was primarily due to: $133 million favorable impact from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities from 35 percent to 21 percent as a result of the tcja; $123 million loss in 2016 on permanent release of certain pipeline capacity; $40 million improved results in 2017 due to unfavorable results from midstream activities, including lng operations, in 2016; 77 $34 million settlement proceeds received from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty in bankruptcy court, of which $28 million was related to the charge in 2016 from the permanent release of certain pipeline capacity, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $27 million impairment charge in 2016 related to our investment in rockies express; offset by $78 million gain on the sale of energysouth in september 2016, net of related expenses; $11 million lower equity earnings resulting from the sale of our investment in rockies express in may 2016; and $6 million lower earnings in 2017 due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016. the decrease of $151 million in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $123 million loss on permanent release of pipeline capacity; $36 million gain in 2015 on the sale of the remaining 625-mw block of the mesquite power plant, net of related expenses; $36 million lower equity earnings resulting from the sale of our investment in rockies express; $27 million impairment charge related to our investment in rockies express; and $15 million lower results primarily driven by changes in natural gas prices; offset by $78 million gain on the sale of energysouth, net of related expenses. parent and other the increase in losses of $1.2 billion in 2017 was primarily due to: $1,147 million income tax expense in 2017 compared to a $54 million tax benefit in 2016, primarily due to: $1,165 million unfavorable impact from the tcja, including: $477 million from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35 percent to 21 percent, $360 million u.s. state and non-u.s. withholding tax expense on our expected repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings estimated for deemed repatriation, and $328 million of u.s. federal deemed repatriation tax, $20 million u.s. income tax benefit in 2016 as a result of a change in planned repatriation of earnings, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, and $17 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; and $20 million of costs in 2017 associated with foreign currency derivatives; offset by $31 million higher investment gains on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans, net of an increase in deferred compensation expense associated with those investments. the decrease in losses of $36 million ( 24% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $32 million higher income tax benefits, including: $40 million lower u.s. tax expense in 2016 as a result of a change in planned repatriation, and $17 million income tax benefit associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation, offset by $14 million income tax benefits in 2015 associated with the favorable resolution of prior years' income tax items, and $7 million income tax benefits in 2015 from a decrease in state valuation allowances; and $10 million higher investment gains in 2016 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans, net of an increase in deferred compensation expense associated with those investments; offset by $10 million higher net interest expense. adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share we prepare the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap. however, management may use earnings and eps adjusted to exclude certain items (referred to as adjusted earnings and adjusted eps) internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance and for reporting of results to the board of directors. we may also use adjusted earnings and adjusted eps when communicating our financial results and earnings outlook to analysts and investors. adjusted earnings and adjusted eps are non-gaap financial measures. because of the significance and/or nature of the excluded items, management believes that these non-gaap financial measures provide a meaningful comparison of the performance of business operations to prior and future periods. non-gaap financial measures are supplementary information that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. 78 the table below reconciles sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted eps to gaap earnings and gaap diluted eps, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap, for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) non-controlling interests earnings diluted eps year ended december 31, 2017 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 256 $ 1.01 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 870 $ 870 3.45 write-off of wildfire regulatory asset 351 (143 ) 208 0.82 impairment of tdm assets held for sale 71 (24 ) 47 0.19 aliso canyon litigation reserves 20 20 0.08 deferred income tax benefit associated with tdm (8 ) 3 (5 ) (0.02 ) recoveries related to 2016 permanent release of pipeline capacity (47 ) 19 (28 ) (0.11 ) sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,368 $ 5.42 weighted-average number of shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 252,300 year ended december 31, 2016 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 1,370 $ 5.46 excluded items: remeasurement gain in connection with gdc acquisition $ (617 ) $ 185 $ 82 (350 ) (1.39 ) gain on sale of energysouth (130 ) 52 (78 ) (0.31 ) permanent release of pipeline capacity 206 (83 ) 123 0.49 sdg&amp;e tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd 52 (21 ) 31 0.12 socalgas tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd 83 (34 ) 49 0.19 impairment of investment in rockies express 44 (17 ) 27 0.11 impairment of tdm assets held for sale 131 (20 ) (21 ) 90 0.36 deferred income tax expense associated with tdm 8 (3 ) 5 0.02 sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,267 $ 5.05 weighted-average number of shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 251,155 year ended december 31, 2015 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 1,349 $ 5.37 excluded items: gain on sale of mesquite power block 2 $ (61 ) $ 25 $ (36 ) (0.14 ) songs plant closure adjustment (26 ) 11 (15 ) (0.06 ) sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,298 $ 5.17 weighted-average number of shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 250,923 (1) income taxes were calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates, except for adjustments that are solely income tax. income taxes associated with tdm were calculated based on the applicable statutory tax rate, including translation from historic to current exchange rates. an income tax benefit of $12 million associated with the 2017 tdm impairment has been fully reserved. the table below reconciles sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings to gaap earnings, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap, for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings (dollars in millions) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) earnings year ended december 31, 2017 sdg&amp;e gaap earnings $ 407 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 28 28 write-off of wildfire regulatory asset 351 (143 ) 208 sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings $ 643 79 year ended december 31, 2016 sdg&amp;e gaap earnings $ 570 excluded item: sdg&amp;e tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd $ 52 $ (21 ) 31 sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings $ 601 year ended december 31, 2015 sdg&amp;e gaap earnings $ 587 excluded item: songs plant closure adjustment $ (26 ) $ 11 (15 ) sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings $ 572 (1) income taxes were calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates, except for adjustments that are solely income tax. the table below reconciles socalgas adjusted earnings to gaap earnings, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap, for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016. socalgas had no reconciling adjustments for the year ended december 31, 2015. socalgas adjusted earnings (dollars in millions) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) earnings year ended december 31, 2017 socalgas gaap earnings $ 396 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 2 2 aliso canyon litigation reserves 20 20 socalgas adjusted earnings $ 418 year ended december 31, 2016 socalgas gaap earnings $ 349 excluded item: socalgas tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd $ 83 $ (34 ) 49 socalgas adjusted earnings $ 398 (1) income taxes were calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates, except for adjustments that are solely income tax. changes in revenues, costs and earnings this section contains a discussion of the differences between periods in the specific line items of the consolidated statements of operations for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. utilities revenues our utilities revenues include electric revenues at: sdg&amp;e sempra south american utilities' chilquinta energ a and luz del sur natural gas revenues at: sdg&amp;e socalgas sempra mexico's ecogas sempra lng &amp; midstream's mobile gas and willmut gas (prior to the sale of energysouth on september 12, 2016) intercompany revenues included in the separate revenues of each utility are eliminated in the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. socalgas and sdg&amp;e currently operate under a regulatory framework that: 80 permits sdg&amp;e to recover the actual cost incurred to generate or procure electricity based on annual estimates of the cost of electricity supplied to customers. the differences in cost between estimates and actual are recovered in subsequent periods through rates. permits the cost of natural gas purchased for core customers (primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers) to be passed through to customers in rates substantially as incurred. however, socalgas' gcim provides socalgas the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for its core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. this mechanism permits full recovery of costs incurred when average purchase costs are within a price range around the benchmark price. any higher costs incurred or savings realized outside this range are shared between the core customers and socalgas. we provide further discussion in item 1. business. also permits the california utilities to recover certain expenses for programs authorized by the cpuc, or refundable programs. because changes in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' cost of electricity and/or natural gas are substantially recovered in rates, changes in these costs are offset in the changes in revenues, and therefore do not impact earnings. in addition to the changes in cost or market prices, electric or natural gas revenues recorded during a period are impacted by customer billing cycles causing a difference between customer billings and recorded or authorized costs. these differences are required to be balanced over time, resulting in over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts. we discuss balancing accounts and their effects further in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the table below summarizes revenues and cost of sales for our utilities. utilities revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 electric revenues: sdg&amp;e $ 3,935 $ 3,754 $ 3,719 sempra south american utilities 1,486 1,463 1,447 eliminations and adjustments (1) (6 ) (6 ) (8 ) total 5,415 5,211 5,158 natural gas revenues: socalgas 3,785 3,471 3,489 sdg&amp;e 541 499 500 sempra mexico 110 88 81 sempra lng &amp; midstream (2) 68 103 eliminations and adjustments (1) (75 ) (76 ) (77 ) total 4,361 4,050 4,096 total utilities revenues $ 9,776 $ 9,261 $ 9,254 cost of electric fuel and purchased power: sdg&amp;e $ 1,293 $ 1,187 $ 1,151 sempra south american utilities 988 1,001 985 total $ 2,281 $ 2,188 $ 2,136 cost of natural gas: socalgas $ 1,025 $ 891 $ 921 sdg&amp;e 164 127 153 sempra mexico 70 52 49 sempra lng &amp; midstream (2) 17 31 eliminations and adjustments (1) (69 ) (20 ) (20 ) total $ 1,190 $ 1,067 $ 1,134 (1) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. (2) in september 2016, we completed the sale of energysouth, the parent company of mobile gas and willmut gas. electric revenues and cost of electric fuel and purchased power our electric revenues increased by $204 million ( 4% ) to $5.4 billion in 2017 primarily due to: $181 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including: $106 million higher cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below, $52 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, $52 million increase in 2017 due to an increase in rates permitted under the attrition mechanism in the 2016 grc fd, and 81 $31 million higher authorized revenues from electric transmission, offset by $50 million charge in 2017 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, $9 million lower recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m, and $5 million in 2016 to reduce estimated 2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd to actual deductions taken on the 2015 tax return; and $23 million increase at sempra south american utilities, including: $56 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects, and $44 million due to higher rates at luz del sur, offset by lower rates at chilquinta energ a, offset by $75 million lower volumes at luz del sur, primarily due to the migration of regulated and non-regulated customers to tolling customers, who pay only a tolling fee. in 2016 compared to 2015 , our electric revenues increased by $53 million ( 1% ), remaining at $5.2 billion , primarily due to: $35 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including: $37 million higher authorized revenue in the 2016 grc fd, $36 million higher cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below, $31 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m, and $5 million to reduce estimated 2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd to actual deductions taken on the 2015 tax return, offset by $52 million of charges associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; and $16 million increase at sempra south american utilities, including: $117 million due to higher rates at luz del sur and chilquinta energ a primarily due to $81 million of increased costs passed through to customers, offset by $69 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects, $24 million lower volumes at luz del sur, net of the effects of higher revenues from the santa teresa hydroelectric power plant, which began commercial operations in september 2015 , and $9 million business interruption insurance proceeds in 2015. our utilities' cost of electric fuel and purchased power increased by $93 million ( 4% ) to $2.3 billion in 2017 due to: $106 million increase at sdg&amp;e, primarily due to an increase in the cost of purchased power due to higher natural gas prices, an increase from the incremental purchase of renewable energy at higher prices and an additional capacity contract; offset by $13 million decrease at sempra south american utilities primarily due to: $48 million lower volumes at luz del sur , offset by $38 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects. our utilities' cost of electric fuel and purchased power increased by $52 million ( 2% ) to $2.2 billion in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $36 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including: an increase from the incremental purchase of renewable energy at higher prices, offset by a decrease in cost of purchased power due to declining natural gas prices, and a decrease in consumption due to increased rooftop solar installations, weather impacts and energy efficiency initiatives; and $16 million increase at sempra south american utilities primarily due to: $81 million of increased costs passed through to customers, offset by $48 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects, and $28 million lower volumes at luz del sur, net of the effects of increased costs at the santa teresa hydroelectric power plant. natural gas revenues and cost of natural gas 82 the table below summarizes average cost of natural gas sold by the california utilities and included in cost of natural gas. the average cost of natural gas sold at each utility is impacted by market prices, as well as transportation, tariff and other charges. california utilities average cost of natural gas (dollars per thousand cubic feet) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 socalgas $ 3.44 $ 3.05 $ 3.18 sdg&amp;e 4.08 3.20 4.05 in 2017 , our natural gas revenues increased by $311 million ( 8% ) to $4.4 billion primarily due to: $314 million increase at socalgas, which included $134 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, $83 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, $57 million increase due to 2017 attrition, $49 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep, $10 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m, and $5 million gcim award approved by the cpuc in january 2017, offset by $19 million in 2016 to reduce estimated 2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd to actual deductions taken on the 2015 tax return, and $14 million charge in 2017 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd; $42 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included $37 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, and $21 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep, offset by $13 million lower recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m; and $22 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas prices and higher rates for distribution at ecogas; offset by $68 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016. in 2016 compared to 2015 , our natural gas revenues decreased by $46 million ( 1% ) remaining at $4.1 billion , and the cost of natural gas decreased by $67 million ( 6% ) remaining at $1.1 billion . the decrease in natural gas revenues included $35 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016; $18 million decrease at socalgas, which included $83 million of charges associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, $30 million decrease in cost of natural gas sold, due to $38 million from lower average prices offset by $8 million from higher volume, $27 million charge associated with tracking the 2016 income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, $21 million lower regulatory awards, and $19 million increase in 2015 from a cpuc-approved retroactive increase in authorized grc revenue requirement for years 2012 through 2014 due to increased rate base, offset by $56 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep and advanced metering assets, $52 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m, $49 million higher authorized revenue in the 2016 grc fd, and $19 million to reduce estimated 2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd to actual deductions taken on the 2015 tax return; and $1 million decrease at sdg&amp;e, which included 83 $26 million decrease in cost of natural gas sold, due to $34 million from lower average prices offset by $8 million from higher volume, offset by $9 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are fully offset in o&amp;m, and $8 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep. our cost of natural gas increased by $123 million ( 12% ) to $1.2 billion in 2017 primarily due to: $134 million increase at socalgas, due to $114 million from higher average prices and $20 million from higher volumes driven by weather; $37 million increase at sdg&amp;e primarily due to higher average prices; and $18 million increase at sempra mexico, primarily due to higher natural gas prices at ecogas; offset by $49 million primarily from higher elimination of intercompany costs at sempra mexico. energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales the table below shows revenues and cost of sales for our energy-related businesses. energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 revenues sempra south american utilities $ 81 $ 93 $ 97 sempra mexico 1,086 637 588 sempra renewables 94 34 36 sempra lng &amp; midstream 540 440 550 eliminations and adjustments (1) (370 ) (282 ) (294 ) total revenues $ 1,431 $ 922 $ 977 cost of sales (2) cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power: sempra south american utilities $ 20 $ 13 $ 22 sempra mexico 252 200 221 sempra lng &amp; midstream 382 337 375 eliminations and adjustments (1) (315 ) (273 ) (283 ) total $ 339 $ 277 $ 335 other cost of sales: sempra south american utilities $ 52 $ 69 $ 64 sempra mexico 9 10 15 sempra lng &amp; midstream (30 ) 251 79 eliminations and adjustments (1) (7 ) (8 ) (10 ) total $ 24 $ 322 $ 148 (1) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. (2) excludes depreciation and amortization, which are presented separately on the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. revenues from our energy-related businesses increased by $509 million ( 55% ) to $1.4 billion in 2017 . the increase included $449 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to: $293 million from the acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016 and from other pipeline assets placed in service, $96 million from the acquisition of ventika in december 2016, $30 million higher revenues primarily due to higher natural gas prices and customer base in its gas business, and $28 million increase at tdm due to higher power prices and volumes; $100 million increase at sempra lng &amp; midstream, which included $51 million primarily from natural gas marketing activities, including an increase in sales of natural gas, and from changes in natural gas prices, $29 million from higher natural gas and lng sales to sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas prices, $12 million from non-delivery of lng cargoes due to higher natural gas prices, and 84 $10 million attributable to cameron interstate pipeline; and $60 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service during 2016; offset by $88 million primarily from higher intercompany eliminations associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. in 2016 compared to 2015 , revenues from our energy-related businesses decreased by $55 million ( 6% ) to $922 million . the decrease included $110 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream, which included $63 million primarily driven by changes in natural gas prices and lower volumes, $34 million lower power revenues due to the sale of the second block of mesquite power in april 2015, and $13 million from lower natural gas sales to sempra mexico; offset by $49 million higher revenues at sempra mexico primarily due to: $82 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016, offset by $30 million lower power volumes at the tdm power plant; and $12 million primarily from lower intercompany eliminations associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. the cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power for our energy-related businesses increased by $62 million ( 22% ) to $339 million in 2017 primarily due to: $52 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas costs and customer base in its gas business; and $45 million increase at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to higher natural gas costs; offset by $42 million from higher intercompany eliminations of costs associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. other cost of sales for our energy-related businesses decreased by $298 million in 2017 primarily due to: $206 million charge in 2016 related to sempra lng &amp; midstream's permanent release of certain pipeline capacity; $57 million settlement proceeds received by sempra lng &amp; midstream in may 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty, of which $47 million was related to the charge in 2016 from permanent release of pipeline capacity; $18 million capacity costs in 2016 on the rockies express pipeline that ha ve since been permanently released; and $16 million due to lower sales of electrical services and materials at tecnored. the cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power for our energy-related businesses decreased by $58 million ( 17% ) to $277 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $38 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to lower natural gas costs and lower electric fuel costs due to the sale of the remaining block of mesquite power in april 2015; and $21 million decrease at sempra mexico primarily due to lower natural gas volumes and costs; offset by $10 million primarily from lower intercompany eliminations of costs associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. other cost of sales for our energy-related businesses increased by $174 million to $322 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to the $206 million charge related to sempra lng &amp; midstream's permanent release of pipeline capacity in the second quarter of 2016, offset by $33 million of capacity costs in 2015 on the rockies express pipeline. 85 operation and maintenance in the table below, we provide a breakdown of o&amp;m by segment. operation and maintenance (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 sempra utilities: sdg&amp;e $ 1,020 $ 1,048 $ 1,017 socalgas 1,479 1,385 1,361 sempra south american utilities 170 172 160 sempra infrastructure: sempra mexico 234 150 126 sempra renewables 73 54 50 sempra lng &amp; midstream 123 156 177 parent and other (1) 18 5 (5 ) total operation and maintenance $ 3,117 $ 2,970 $ 2,886 (1) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. our o&amp;m increased by $147 million ( 5% ) to $3.1 billion in 2017 primarily due to: $94 million increase at socalgas, which included $54 million higher non-refundable operating costs primarily associated with higher safety-related maintenance and inspection activity, as well as other labor, contract services and administrative and support costs, $20 million aliso canyon litigation reserves in 2017, and $10 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs; $84 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to the consolidation of ienova pipelines and ventika in 2016, from the growth in sempra mexico's businesses, and from scheduled major maintenance at tdm in the second quarter of 2017 ; and $19 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2016 and higher general and administrative and development costs; offset by $33 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream, $25 million of which was due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016; and $28 million decrease at sdg&amp;e, which included $22 million lower expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, $12 million decrease at otay mesa vie primarily due to scheduled major maintenance in 2016 at the omec plant, and $11 million reimbursement of litigation costs associated with the arbitration ruling over the songs replacement steam generators, as we discuss in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, offset by $16 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs. our o&amp;m increased by $84 million ( 3% ) to $3.0 billion in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $31 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included $40 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, and $10 million at otay mesa vie primarily due to scheduled major maintenance at the omec plant in the second quarter of 2016, offset by $14 million lower litigation expense, and $8 million lower non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs; $24 million increase at socalgas, which included $52 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, offset by $33 million lower non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs; and $24 million increase at sempra mexico primarily from $17 million higher operating costs due to the acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016; offset by $21 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream, $9 million of which is attributable to the sale of energysouth. 86 depreciation and amortization our depreciation and amortization expense was $1,490 million in 2017 $1,312 million in 2016 $1,250 million in 2015 the increase of $178 million ( 14% ) in 2017 was primarily due to: $79 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to the consolidation of ienova pipelines and ventika in the second half of 2016; $39 million increase at socalgas from depreciation on higher utility plant base; $32 million increase at sempra renewables due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2016; and $24 million increase at sdg&amp;e primarily from depreciation on higher utility plant base. the increase of $62 million ( 5% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $42 million increase at sdg&amp;e from depreciation on higher utility plant base, higher depreciation at otay mesa vie and higher amortization; and $15 million increase at socalgas from depreciation on higher utility plant base. write-off of wildfire regulatory asset in the third quarter of 2017, sdg&amp;e recorded a $351 million charge for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs. we discuss this further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impairment losses sempra mexico reduced the carrying value of tdm by recognizing noncash impairment charges of $71 million in 2017 and $131 million in 2016, as we discuss in notes 3 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2016, socalgas recorded a $21 million impairment of assets related to the southern gas system reliability project. plant closure adjustment in 2015, sdg&amp;e recorded a $26 million pretax reduction to the loss from songs plant closure. we discuss songs further in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. gain on sale of assets gain on sale of assets includes, in 2016, $130 million from the sale of energysouth, and in 2015, $61 million from the sale of the remaining 625-mw block of the mesquite power plant and a related power sale contract, and $8 million from the sale of the rosamond solar development project. equity earnings, before income tax equity earnings from our equity method investments were $34 million in 2017 $6 million in 2016 $104 million in 2015 the increase of $28 million in equity earnings in 2017 was primarily attributable to $26 million equity losses in 2016 from sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment in rockies express, including a $44 million impairment charge in the first quarter of 2016. the decrease of $98 million in equity earnings in 2016 was primarily due to the $44 million impairment charge related to sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment in rockies express in the first quarter of 2016, and $61 million lower equity earnings as a result of the sale of our 25-percent interest in rockies express in may 2016. we provide further details about equity method investments in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 87 remeasurement of equity method investment in the third quarter of 2016, sempra mexico recorded a $617 million noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of its 50-percent equity interest in ienova pipelines. we discuss the transaction further in notes 3 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other income, net other income, net, was $254 million in 2017 $132 million in 2016 $126 million in 2015 other income, net, includes equity-related afudc at the california utilities and regulated entities at sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream; interest on regulatory balancing accounts; gains and losses from our investments and interest rate swaps; foreign currency transaction gains and losses; electrical infrastructure relocation income in peru and chile; and other, sundry amounts. the investment activity is on dedicated assets in support of certain executive benefit plans, as we discuss in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. as part of our central risk management function, we enter into foreign currency derivatives to hedge sempra mexico parent's exposure to movements in the mexican peso from its controlling interest in ienova. the gains associated with these derivatives are included in other income, net, as described below, and partially mitigate the transactional effects of foreign currency and inflation included in income taxes and in earnings from sempra mexico's equity method investments. we discuss policies governing our risk management in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk below. other income, net, increased by $122 million to $254 million in 2017 and included the following activity: $47 million net gains in 2017 on interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, compared to $32 million net losses in 2016 primarily as a result of significant fluctuation of the mexican peso; $52 million increase in equity-related afudc, including: $17 million increase at sdg&amp;e, and $32 million increase at sempra mexico primarily from the ojinaga and san isidro pipeline projects; and $33 million higher investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; offset by $34 million higher foreign currency transactional losses in 2017, primarily related to a mexican peso-denominated note receivable due from img jv. in 2016 compared to 2015 , other income, net, increased by $6 million ( 5% ) to $132 million and included the following activity: $20 million higher investment gains in 2016 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; $9 million increase in equity-related afudc, including: $9 million increase at sdg&amp;e, and $4 million increase at socalgas, offset by $6 million decrease at sempra mexico; and $6 million lower foreign currency losses in 2016; offset by $28 million higher losses on interest rate and foreign exchange instruments in 2016; and $6 million lower income from the sale of other investments. we provide further details of the components of other income, net, in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest expense interest expense was $659 million in 2017 $553 million in 2016 $561 million in 2015 the increase of $106 million ( 19% ) in 2017 was primarily due to: $84 million increase at sempra mexico, which included 88 $40 million increase due to interest on debt assumed in the ienova pipelines and ventika acquisitions in the second half of 2016, $28 million increase due to lower capitalized interest due to the recognition of afudc mainly related to the ojinaga and san isidro pipeline projects in 2017, $10 million increase in short-term debt at ienova; and $11 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to lower capitalized interest as a result of solar and wind assets placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2016. the decrease of $8 million ( 1% ) in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to: $26 million higher capitalized interest primarily due to: $18 million increase at sempra renewables primarily for solar projects, and $10 million increase at sempra mexico primarily for the ojinaga and san isidro pipeline projects; offset by $13 million increase at socalgas primarily due to debt issuances in 2015 and 2016; and $6 million higher lease interest on our downtown headquarters building. income taxes the table below shows the income tax expense and etrs for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. income tax expense and effective income tax rates (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 income tax expense effective income tax rate income tax expense effective income tax rate income tax expense effective income tax rate sempra energy consolidated $ 1,276 81 % $ 389 21 % $ 341 20 % sdg&amp;e 155 27 280 33 284 32 socalgas 160 29 143 29 138 25 on december 22, 2017, the tcja was signed into law. as discussed below, we recorded additional income tax expense of $870 million from the effects of the tcja in 2017. following are the key provisions of the tcja, its impact on us in 2017 and how we expect it may impact us in the future: lower u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate: the tcja reduces the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective january 1, 2018, which will be applied to our future u.s. earnings. we expect the resultant lower income tax expense at sdg&amp;e and socalgas to be allocated to ratepayers. deemed repatriation: the tcja imposes a one-time tax for deemed repatriation of cumulative undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. under the deemed repatriation provision of the tcja, a u.s. shareholder must include in taxable income its pro-rata share of cumulative foreign undistributed earnings, which are taxed at 15.5 percent on cash or cash equivalents and 8 percent on cumulative other earnings. territorial tax system: the tcja adopts a territorial system of taxation that replaces the previous worldwide taxation approach. the tcja provides for a 100 percent dividends received deduction for foreign source dividends, effectively resulting in no federal income taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings after 2017. full expensing of depreciable property: property placed in service after september 27, 2017 is generally eligible for full expensing. regulated public utilities, including sdg&amp;e and socalgas, are not eligible for this treatment. limitation of interest deductions: the tcja limits the deduction for interest expense that exceeds adjusted taxable income. any disallowed interest expense can be carried forward indefinitely. regulated public utilities, including sdg&amp;e and socalgas, are excepted from this limitation. executive compensation deduction limitation: the tcja amends the definition of a covered employee and eliminates certain exceptions previously allowed under prior law, limiting the annual deductible compensation expense for a covered employee to $1 million. nol deductions: u.s. federal nol carryforwards generated in years starting in 2018 are limited to 80 percent of taxable income. the tcja permits new nols to be carried forward indefinitely, but no longer allows any carryback. our 2017 income tax expense was materially impacted by the effects of the tcja primarily relating to two provisions: 89 lower u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate: the remeasurement of deferred income taxes at the new u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate of 21 percent resulted in additional income tax expense of $182 million, $28 million and $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 for sempra energy consolidated, sdg&amp;e and socalgas, respectively. due to regulation by the cpuc and ferc, remeasurement impacts at sdg&amp;e and socalgas were largely offset by adjustments to regulatory liabilities. deemed repatriation: sempra energy recorded income tax expense of $328 million associated with the deemed repatriation tax for the year ended december 31, 2017. in addition, we now anticipate that we will repatriate our foreign undistributed earnings (estimated to be approximately $4 billion) that have now been taxed at the u.s. federal level as a result of the deemed repatriation tax. we expect to repatriate approximately $1.6 billion from 2018 through 2022, as cash is generated by our businesses at the local level. we currently anticipate electing to use our existing nols to offset the deemed repatriation tax. however, as provided under the tcja, at the time of filing our tax return in 2018, should we determine that we will pay the deemed repatriation tax over a period of eight years instead of utilizing our nols, our income tax expense and cash tax payments would increase. in addition to the deemed repatriation tax, we accrued $360 million of u.s. state and non-u.s. withholding tax on our expected future repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings. this liability could change as a result of various factors, such as interpretation and clarification of the tcja provisions, changes in foreign tax laws, foreign currency movements, the source of cash to be repatriated, or adjustments to our provisional estimates, as we discuss below. we have not recorded deferred income tax with respect to remaining basis differences of approximately $1 billion between financial statement and income tax investment amounts in our non-u.s. subsidiaries as of december 31, 2017 because we consider them to be indefinitely reinvested. it is not practicable to determine the hypothetical amount of tax that might be payable if the underlying basis differences were realized. if these basis differences were realized, we would need to adjust our income tax provision in the period we determine that they are no longer indefinitely reinvested. we recorded the effects of the tcja in 2017 using our best estimates and the information available to us through the date the financial statements were issued. however, our analysis is ongoing and as such, the income tax effects that we have recorded are provisional. as permitted by and in accordance with guidance issued by the sec, we may adjust our provisional estimates in reporting periods throughout 2018 as we complete our analysis and as more information becomes available, and these adjustments may affect earnings. events and information that may result in adjustments to our provisional estimates include interpretations or rulings by the u.s. department of the treasury or states, the filing of our 2017 income tax return and the finalization of our calculation of foreign undistributed earnings. we discuss the tcja and its impacts further in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy consolidated sempra energy's income tax expense increased in 2017 due to a higher etr, partially offset by lower pretax income. the higher etr was primarily due to: $870 million from effects of the tcja, as follows: $688 million income tax expense in 2017 related to future repatriation of foreign earnings, including $328 million of u.s. federal income tax expense pertaining to the deemed repatriation tax and $360 million u.s. state and non-u.s. withholding tax expense on our expected future repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings estimated for deemed repatriation, and $182 million deferred income tax expense from remeasurement of our u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35 percent to 21 percent; $62 million income tax expense in 2017, compared to $38 million income tax benefit in 2016, from foreign currency and inflation effects, primarily as a result of significant fluctuation of the mexican peso in 2017; and $34 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; offset by $33 million income tax benefit in 2017, compared to $3 million income tax expense in 2016, related to the resolution of prior years' income tax items. sempra energy's income tax expense increased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to higher pretax income and a higher etr. the higher etr was primarily due to: $3 million income tax expense in 2016, compared to $56 million income tax benefit in 2015, from the resolution of prior years' income tax items. the amount in 2016 included $14 million income tax expense from lower actual repairs deductions at sdg&amp;e and socalgas taken on the 2015 tax return compared to amounts estimated in 2015, as discussed in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $17 million income tax expense from the remeasurement of our peruvian deferred income tax balances as a result of tax reform in peru as discussed below; offset by 90 $34 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; and $40 million lower u.s. income tax expense as a result of a change in planned repatriation from certain non-u.s. subsidiaries. we report as part of our pretax results the income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. however, we do not record income taxes for a portion of this income or loss, as some of our entities with noncontrolling interests are currently treated as partnerships for income tax purposes, and thus we are only liable for income taxes on the portion of the earnings that are allocated to us. our pretax income, however, includes 100 percent of these entities. as our entities with noncontrolling interests grow, and as we may continue to invest in such entities, the impact on our etr may become more significant. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's income tax expense decreased in 2017 due to lower pretax income and a lower etr. the pretax income in 2017 included the $351 million ($208 million after-tax) write-off of wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $12 million higher income tax benefit in 2017 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items; and higher flow-through deductions in 2017, including higher afudc that is non-taxable; offset by $28 million deferred income tax expense from remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35 percent to 21 percent, primarily from the deferred tax asset relating to the impairments of songs sgrp in prior years. we discuss the impairment of songs sgrp in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $7 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. sdg&amp;e's income tax expense decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to lower pretax income, offset by a higher etr. the higher etr was primarily due to: $11 million lower income tax benefit in 2016 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items, including $3 million income tax expense in 2016 from lower actual repairs deductions taken on the 2015 tax return compared to amounts estimated in 2015; offset by $7 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. socalgas socalgas' income tax expense increased in 2017 due to higher pretax income. socalgas' etr remained the same in 2017, but was affected by: $12 million income tax benefit in 2017, compared to $10 million income tax expense in 2016, from the resolution of prior years' income tax items; offset by $4 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. socalgas' income tax expense increased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to a higher etr, offset by lower pretax income . the higher etr was primarily due to : $10 million income tax expense in 2016, compared to $18 million income tax benefit in 2015, from the resolution of prior years' income tax items. the amount in 2016 included $11 million income tax expense from lower actual repairs deductions taken on the 2015 tax return compared to amounts estimated in 2015; offset by $4 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. peruvian tax legislation on december 10, 2016, the peruvian president, through a presidential decree, enacted income tax law changes that became effective on january 1, 2017. among other changes, the new law imposes an increase in the corporate income tax rate from 28 percent in 2016 to 29.5 percent in 2017 and beyond, as well as a decrease in the dividend withholding tax rate from 6.8 percent in 2016 to 5 percent in 2017 and beyond. as a result of the increase to the peruvian corporate income tax rate to 29.5 percent, we remeasured our peruvian deferred income tax balances, resulting in $17 million income tax expense recorded in 2016. equity earnings, net of income tax equity earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries, net of income tax, which are all from sempra south american utilities' and sempra mexico's equity method investments, were $42 million in 2017 $78 million in 2016 $85 million in 2015 91 the decrease of $36 million in 2017 was primarily due to: $64 million of equity earnings in 2016 from ienova pipelines, including $19 million from den, prior to ienova's acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016; and $13 million equity losses in 2017 from den, prior to ienova's acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in den in november 2017, compared to $5 million of equity earnings in 2016, primarily from foreign currency and inflation effects; offset by $45 million equity earnings from img, primarily from afudc equity and foreign currency effects, offset by interest expense. the decrease of $7 million in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to ienova's acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines, increasing ienova's ownership in ienova pipelines to 100 percent, offset by higher equity earnings at the eletrans joint venture. earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests were $94 million for 2017 compared to $148 million for 2016 . the net change of $54 million included $60 million at sempra mexico, primarily due to: $50 million lower earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests as a result of the decrease in earnings, excluding the effects of foreign currency and inflation, as we discuss above in segment results sempra mexico, and $28 million losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2017 from foreign currency and inflation effects without the corresponding benefit from foreign currency derivatives that are not subject to noncontrolling interests compared to $14 million earnings in 2016, offset by $32 million higher earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests, excluding the effects of foreign currency and inflation, from the decrease in our controlling interest from 81.1 percent to 66.4 percent following ienova's equity offering in october 2016, which we discuss in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $19 million higher pretax losses attributed to tax equity investors at sempra renewables in 2017; offset by $14 million earnings at sdg&amp;e compared to $5 million losses in 2016, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses as a result of scheduled major maintenance at the omec plant in 2016. earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests were $148 million for 2016 compared to $98 million for 2015 . the net change of $50 million included $80 million at sempra mexico, primarily due to: $82 million gain associated with the remeasurement of our 50-percent equity interest in ienova pipelines, and $14 million due to the decrease in our controlling interest from 81.1 percent to 66.4 percent following ienova's equity offerings in october 2016, offset by $21 million impairment of tdm assets held for sale; offset by $24 million decrease at sdg&amp;e, primarily as a result of scheduled major maintenance at the omec plant in 2016. transactions with affiliates we provide information about our related party transactions in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations foreign currency translation our operations in south america and our natural gas distribution utility in mexico use their local currency as their functional currency. the assets and liabilities of these foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars at current exchange rates at the end of the reporting period, and revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period. the resulting noncash translation adjustments do not enter into the calculation of earnings or retained earnings, but are reflected in oci and in aoci. however, any difference in average exchange rates used for the translation of income statement activity from year to year can cause a variance in sempra energy's comparative results of operations. changes in foreign currency translation rates between years impacted our comparative reported results as follows: 92 translation impact from change in average foreign currency exchange rates (dollars in millions) 2017 compared to 2016 2016 compared to 2015 higher (lower) earnings from foreign currency translation: sempra south american utilities $ 6 $ (8 ) sempra mexico ecogas (2 ) total $ 6 $ (10 ) transactional impacts some income statement activities at our foreign operations and their joint ventures are also impacted by transactional gains and losses, which we discuss below. a summary of these foreign currency transactional gains and losses included in our reported results are as follows: transactional gains (losses) from foreign currency and inflation (dollars in millions) total reported amounts transactional gains (losses) included in reported amounts years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 other income, net $ 254 $ 132 $ 126 $ 14 $ (33 ) $ (11 ) income tax expense (1,276 ) (389 ) (341 ) (62 ) 38 43 equity earnings, net of income tax 42 78 85 14 23 17 net income 351 1,519 1,448 (53 ) 39 50 earnings 256 1,370 1,349 (25 ) 25 40 foreign currency exchange rate and inflation impacts on income taxes and related hedging activity our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated cash balances, receivables, payables and debt (monetary assets and liabilities) that are affected by mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. as a result, fluctuations in both the currency exchange rate for the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar and mexican inflation may expose us to fluctuations in income tax expense and equity earnings, net of income tax. we use foreign currency derivatives as a means to manage exposure to the currency exchange rate on our monetary assets and liabilities. however, we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense caused by exchange rate fluctuations and inflation. the derivative activity impacts other income, net. the income tax expense of our south american subsidiaries is similarly impacted by inflation and currency exchange rate movements related to u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. other transactions although the financial statements of most of our mexican subsidiaries and joint ventures (energ a sierra ju rez and img) have the u.s. dollar as the functional currency, some transactions may be denominated in the local currency; such transactions are remeasured into u.s. dollars. this remeasurement creates transactional gains and losses that are included in other income, net, for our consolidated subsidiaries and in equity earnings, net of income tax, for our joint ventures (including ienova pipelines until september 26, 2016 and den until november 15, 2017). we utilize cross-currency swaps that exchange our mexican-peso denominated principal and interest payments into the u.s. dollar and swap mexican variable interest rates for u.s. fixed interest rates. the impacts of these cross-currency swaps are offset in oci and are reclassified from aoci into earnings through interest expense as settlements occur. certain of our mexican pipeline projects (namely los ramones i at ienova pipelines and los ramones norte within our tag joint venture) generate revenue based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in mexico, with contracts denominated in mexican pesos that are indexed to the u.s. dollar, adjusted annually for inflation and fluctuation in the exchange rate. the 93 resultant gains and losses from remeasuring the local currency amounts into u.s. dollars and the settlement of foreign currency forwards and swaps related to these contracts are included in revenues: energy-related businesses or equity earnings, net of income tax. our joint ventures in chile (eletrans) use the u.s. dollar as the functional currency, but have certain construction commitments that are denominated in clf. eletrans entered into forward exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exchange risk of the clf relative to the u.s. dollar. the forward exchange contracts settle based on anticipated payments to vendors, generally monthly, ending in 2018, with activity recorded in equity earnings, net of income tax. capital resources and liquidity overview we expect to meet cash requirements of our operations through cash flows from operations, unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our credit facilities, distributions from our equity method investments, issuances of debt and equity securities, project financing and other equity sales, including tax equity and partnering in joint ventures. we discuss the anticipated financing and cash flow impacts of our pending acquisition of efh below. our lines of credit provide liquidity and support commercial paper. as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, sempra energy, sempra global and the california utilities each have five-year revolving credit facilities expiring in 2020. the table below shows the amount of available funds, including available unused credit on these three credit facilities, at december 31, 2017 . our foreign operations have additional general purpose credit facilities aggregating $1.8 billion , with $1.4 billion available unused credit at december 31, 2017 . available funds at december 31, 2017 (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 288 $ 12 $ 8 available unused credit (2)(3) 3,035 497 634 (1) amounts at sempra energy consolidated include $140 million held in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we discuss repatriation in results of operations changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes above. (2) available unused credit is the total available on sempra energy's, sempra global's and the california utilities' credit facilities that we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. borrowings on the shared line of credit at sdg&amp;e and socalgas are limited to $750 million for each utility and a combined total of $1 billion. (3) because the commercial paper programs are supported by these lines, we reflect the amount of commercial paper outstanding as a reduction to the available unused credit. on january 17, 2018, pursuant to the terms of the sempra energy and sempra global credit facilities, the amounts available under the lines of credit were increased by $250 million for sempra energy and $850 million for sempra global. this additional borrowing capacity is available to us for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and is intended to provide us with additional liquidity and to support commercial paper that we may utilize from time to time to fund our strategic and growth initiatives. sempra energy consolidated we believe that these available funds, combined with cash flows from operations, distributions from our equity method investments, issuances of debt and equity securities, project financing and other equity sales, including tax equity and partnering in joint ventures, will be adequate to fund our current operations, including to: finance capital expenditures meet liquidity requirements fund shareholder dividends fund new business or asset acquisitions or start-ups, including our pending acquisition of efh repay maturing long-term debt 94 fund expenditures related to the natural gas leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility sempra energy and the california utilities currently have ready access to the long-term debt markets and are not currently constrained in their ability to borrow at reasonable rates. however, changing economic conditions and matters related to our pending acquisition of efh could negatively affect the availability and cost of both short-term and long-term financing. also, cash flows from operations may be impacted by the timing of commencement and completion of large projects. if cash flows from operations were to be significantly reduced or we were unable to borrow under acceptable terms, we would likely first reduce or postpone discretionary capital expenditures (not related to safety) and investments in new businesses. if these measures were necessary, they would primarily impact our sempra infrastructure businesses before we would reduce funds necessary for the ongoing needs of our utilities. we monitor our ability to finance the needs of our operating, investing and financing activities in a manner consistent with our intention to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure . we have significant investments in several trusts to provide for future payments of pensions and other postretirement benefits, and nuclear decommissioning. changes in asset values, which are dependent on the activity in the equity and fixed income markets, have not affected the trust funds' abilities to make required payments. however, changes in asset values may, along with a number of other factors such as changes to discount rates, assumed rates of return, mortality tables, and regulations, impact funding requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit plans and sdg&amp;e's ndt. at the california utilities, funding requirements are generally recoverable in rates. in 2017 and 2016, sale and purchase activities in our ndt increased significantly compared to prior years as a result of a change to our asset mix intended to reduce the overall risk profile of the ndt in anticipation of significant cash withdrawals over the next 10 years to fund the songs decommissioning . we discuss our employee benefit plans and sdg&amp;e's ndt, including our investment allocation strategies for assets in these trusts, in notes 7 and 13, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss matters regarding sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas common stock dividends below in dividends. short-term borrowings our short-term debt is primarily used to meet liquidity requirements, fund shareholder dividends, and temporarily finance capital expenditures and acquisitions or start-ups. our corporate short-term, unsecured promissory notes, or commercial paper, were our primary sources of short-term debt funding in 2017 . at our california utilities, short-term debt is used primarily to meet working capital needs. the following table shows selected statistics for our commercial paper borrowings for 2017 : commercial paper statistics (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas amount outstanding at december 31, 2017 $ 1,300 $ 253 $ 116 weighted-average interest rate at december 31, 2017 1.709 % 1.646 % 1.636 % maximum month-end amount outstanding during 2017 (1) $ 2,433 $ 437 $ 116 monthly weighted-average amount outstanding during 2017 $ 1,594 $ 220 $ 19 monthly weighted-average interest rate during 2017 1.371 % 1.059 % 1.225 % (1) the largest amount outstanding at the end of the last day of any month during the year. pending acquisition of energy future holdings corp. on august 21, 2017, sempra energy entered into a merger agreement to acquire efh, the indirect owner of an 80.03-percent interest in oncor (the merger). under the merger agreement, we will pay merger consideration of $9.45 billion in cash. we discuss our registered public offerings of common stock (including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements), mandatory convertible preferred stock and long-term debt completed in january 2018 below and in note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. these offerings provided total initial net proceeds of approximately $7.0 billion for partial funding of the merger consideration, of which approximately $800 million was used to pay down commercial paper pending the closing of the merger. on january 9, 2018, we completed an offering of 23,364,486 shares of our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements with each of morgan stanley &amp; co. llc, an affiliate of rbc capital markets, llc and an affiliate of barclays capital inc. we also sold 3,504,672 shares of our common stock directly to the underwriters of the offering as a result of the underwriters fully 95 exercising their option to purchase shares from us solely to cover overallotments, and received $368 million in net proceeds (net of underwriting discounts, but before deducting related expenses). we did not initially receive any proceeds from the offering of our common stock offered pursuant to the forward sale agreements. we expect to settle a portion of the forward sale agreements and receive proceeds from the delivery of shares of common stock concurrently with, or prior to, the closing of the merger. we expect to settle the remaining portion of the forward sale agreements after the merger, if completed, in multiple settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019, which is the scheduled final settlement date under the forward sale agreements. at the initial forward sale price of $105.074 per share, we expect the net proceeds from full physical settlement of the forward sale agreements to be approximately $2.46 billion (after deducting underwriting discounts, but before deducting expenses, and subject to forward price adjustments under the forward sale agreements). if we elect to cash settle the forward sale agreements, we would expect to receive an amount of net proceeds that is significantly lower than estimated above, and we may not receive any net proceeds (or may owe cash, which could be a significant amount, to the forward purchasers). if we elect to net share settle the forward sale agreements in full, we would not receive any cash proceeds from the forward purchasers (and we may be required to deliver shares of our common stock to the forward purchasers). also on january 9, 2018, we sold to underwriters 17,250,000 shares of our 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series a, at $100.00 per share (or $98.20 per share after deducting underwriting discounts, but before deducting related expenses), including 2,250,000 shares purchased by the underwriters as a result of the underwriters fully exercising their option to purchase shares from us solely to cover overallotments. net proceeds were approximately $1.69 billion (net of underwriting discounts, but before deducting related expenses). if for any reason the merger has not closed on or prior to december 1, 2018, or the merger agreement is terminated at any time prior to such date, then we expect to use the net proceeds from these offerings for general corporate purposes, which may include, in our sole discretion, voluntary redemption of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, debt repayment (including repayment of commercial paper), capital expenditures, investments and possibly repurchases of our common stock at the discretion of our board of directors. on january 12, 2018, we issued $5 billion aggregate principal amount of various series of fixed and floating rate notes maturing at various times from 2019 through 2048. if we do not consummate the merger on or prior to december 1, 2018, or if, on or prior to such date, the merger agreement is terminated, we will be required to redeem all of the outstanding notes (other than the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of notes maturing in 2028) at a redemption price equal to 101 percent of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. in addition to the net proceeds we received from the registered public offering of common stock, mandatory convertible preferred stock, and debt described above, we expect to settle a portion of the forward sale agreements and receive proceeds from the delivery of shares of common stock concurrently with, or prior to, the closing of the merger to fund a portion of the merger consideration. we expect to raise the remaining portion of the merger consideration through multiple issuances of up to $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of commercial paper, which we started issuing on february 23, 2018, although we may reduce this amount through borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and cash from operations. the commercial paper will be issued at prevailing market rates with varying maturity dates. as of february 26, 2018, we have issued approximately $275 million aggregate principal amount of commercial paper to fund a portion of the merger consideration, with a weighted-average maturity of 86 days and a weighted-average interest rate of 2.14 percent per annum. we intend to ultimately fund approximately 65 percent of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs with net proceeds from sales of sempra energy equity securities, including proceeds from the offerings in january 2018 and from settlements of our forward sale agreements, and approximately 35 percent with the net proceeds from issuances of sempra energy debt securities, although we may use cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales in place of some equity financing. some of the equity financing (including proceeds we receive from the settlement of our forward sale agreements and from other sales of common stock) may be obtained after completion of the merger and used to repay indebtedness incurred to finance a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. we anticipate that the merger, if consummated on the terms and under the financing structure currently contemplated, will have a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations. this expectation is based on current market conditions and is subject to a number of assumptions, estimates, projections and other uncertainties, including assumptions regarding the results of operations of the combined company after the merger, the relative mix and timing of debt and equity financing obtained to ultimately fund the merger consideration, the price and interest rates of these financings and the date we close the merger. this expectation also assumes that oncor will perform in accordance with our expectations, and there can be no assurance that this will occur. in addition, we may encounter additional transaction costs and costs to manage our investment in oncor, may fail to realize some or any of the benefits anticipated in the merger, may be subject to currently unknown liabilities as a result of the merger, or may be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. 96 we provide additional discussion regarding the merger and financing risks in notes 3 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in factors influencing future performance below and in item 1a. risk factors. we discuss the potential effects of the merger on our credit ratings in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. impacts of the tcja in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded certain effects of the tcja, resulting in an increase to income tax expense of $870 million at sempra energy consolidated for the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax assets and liabilities at the new federal income tax rate of 21 percent, the one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign corporations, and the related accrual of incremental u.s. state and foreign withholding taxes on expected future repatriation of our undistributed earnings subject to deemed repatriation. although there is no cash impact in 2017, these effects represent future tax payments or other cash outflow and, in the case of sdg&amp;e and socalgas, the remeasurement of their u.s. federal deferred income tax balances will result in cash outflow primarily for refunds to ratepayers in the future. however, the federal and state income taxes and withholding taxes we accrued allow us to repatriate approximately $4 billion of undistributed non-u.s. earnings without further material tax expense expected. we expect to repatriate approximately $1.6 billion from 2018 to 2022, as cash is generated by our businesses at the local level. we currently anticipate electing to use our existing nols to offset the deemed repatriation tax. however, as provided under the tcja, at the time of filing our tax return in 2018, should we determine that we will pay the deemed repatriation tax over a period of eight years instead of utilizing our nols, our income tax expense and cash tax payments would increase. certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted as a result of certain provisions of the tcja and in particular by an anticipated decrease in income tax reimbursement payments to us from sdg&amp;e and socalgas due the reduction in the u.s statutory corporate income tax rate to 21 percent. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100-percent expensing of capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may also influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt. as we discuss in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and above in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, our analysis and interpretation of the effects of the tcja and our assessment of strategies to manage the cash and earnings impacts on our businesses are ongoing. loans to/from affiliates at december 31, 2017, sempra energy has provided loans to unconsolidated affiliates totaling $598 million , and has received a $35 million loan from an unconsolidated affiliate, which we discuss in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. california utilities sdg&amp;e and socalgas expect that available funds described above, cash flows from operations, and debt issuances will continue to be adequate to fund their respective operations. as we discuss in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, c hanges in balancing accounts for significant costs at sdg&amp;e and socalgas, particularly a change between over- and undercollected status, may have a significant impact on cash flows, as these changes generally represent the difference between when costs are incurred and when they are ultimately recovered in rates through billings to customers. sdg&amp;e uses the erra commodity balancing account to record the net of its actual cost incurred for electric fuel and purchased power. sdg&amp;e's erra balance was undercollected by $51 million and $25 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the increase in the erra undercollected balance in 2017 has been primarily due to lower electric volume in conjunction with seasonalized electric rates. the cpuc authorized an erra trigger mechanism in conjunction with california state law that allows for recovery of erra balances that exceed 5 percent of the prior year's electric commodity revenues. in august 2017, the cpuc approved sdg&amp;e's request to amortize $120 million in rates over a 14-month period beginning november 2017. sdg&amp;e also uses the electric distribution fixed cost account (edfca) balancing account to record the difference between the authorized margin and other costs allocated to electric distribution customers. sdg&amp;e's edfca balance was undercollected by $112 million and $96 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. the increase resulted from lower electric volumes sold in 2017. socalgas and sdg&amp;e use the cfca balancing account to record the difference between the authorized margin and other costs allocated to core customers. because mild weather experienced in 2016 and 2017 resulted in lower natural gas consumption compared to authorized levels, socalgas' cfca balance was undercollected by $164 million and $114 million at december 31, 97 2017 and 2016, respectively. sdg&amp;e's cfca balance was undercollected by $26 million and $66 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we discuss matters regarding sdg&amp;e and socalgas common stock dividends below in dividends. socalgas aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak we provide information on the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in factors influencing future performance below, and in item 1a. risk factors. the costs of defending against the related civil and criminal lawsuits and cooperating with related investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, costs and other penalties, if awarded or imposed, as well as costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. also, higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable in customer rates, which may have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if it is determined that the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility was out of service for more than nine consecutive months, we may be unable to recover this investment in rates. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts were significant and may increase, and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra south american utilities we expect to fund operations at chilquinta energ a and luz del sur and dividends at luz del sur with available funds, including credit facilities, funds internally generated by those businesses, issuances of corporate bonds and other external borrowings. sempra mexico we expect to fund operations and dividends at ienova with available funds, including credit facilities, and funds internally generated by the sempra mexico businesses, as well as funds from ienova's securities issuances, project financing, interim funding from the parent or affiliates, and partnering in joint ventures. in 2017, 2016 and 2015, ienova paid dividends of $67 million, $26 million and $32 million, respectively, to its noncontrolling shareholders. sempra renewables we expect sempra renewables to require funds for the development of and investment in electric renewable energy projects. projects at sempra renewables may be financed through a combination of operating cash flow, project financing, funds from the parent, partnering in joint ventures, and other forms of equity sales, including tax equity. the varying costs and structure of these alternative financing sources impact the projects' returns and their earnings profiles. sempra lng &amp; midstream we expect sempra lng &amp; midstream to require funding for the development and expansion of its portfolio of projects, which may be financed through a combination of operating cash flow, funding from the parent, project financing and partnering in joint ventures. sempra lng &amp; midstream, through its interest in cameron lng jv, is developing a natural gas liquefaction export facility at the cameron lng jv terminal. the majority of the current three-train liquefaction project is project-financed, with most or all of the remainder of the capital requirements to be provided by the project partners, including sempra energy, through equity contributions under a joint venture agreement. we expect that our remaining equity requirements to complete the project will be met by a combination of our share of cash generated from each liquefaction train as it comes on line and additional cash contributions. sempra energy signed guarantees for 50.2 percent of cameron lng jv's obligations under the financing agreements for a maximum amount of up to $3.9 billion. the project financing and guarantees became effective on october 1, 2014, the effective date of the joint venture formation. the guarantees will terminate upon satisfaction of certain conditions, 98 including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. we discuss cameron lng jv and the joint venture financing further in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, below in factors influencing future performance, and in item 1a. risk factors. cash flows from operating activities cash provided by operating activities (dollars in millions) 2017 2017 change 2016 (1) 2016 change 2015 (1) sempra energy consolidated $ 3,625 $ 1,314 57 % $ 2,311 $ (587 ) (20 )% $ 2,898 sdg&amp;e 1,547 224 17 1,323 (338 ) (20 ) 1,661 socalgas 1,306 635 95 671 (209 ) (24 ) 880 (1) reflects the adoption of asu 2016-15 and asu 2016-18, as we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy consolidated cash provided by operating activities at sempra energy increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 1.1 billion higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to improved results at our operating segments; $ 188 million net decrease in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $ 281 million net increase in 2016. the $ 188 million net decrease in 2017 primarily includes $ 300 million in insurance proceeds received, offset by $ 112 million of additional accruals. we discuss the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility leak further in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors; $ 31 million net increase in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $ 221 million net decrease in 2016. the $31 million net increase in 2017 includes $130 million of additional accruals (including $20 million of litigation reserves charged to earnings), offset by $99 million of cash paid; $66 million decrease in ndt at sdg&amp;e in 2017 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in the current year; and $ 17 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 42 million increase in 2016; offset by $54 million increase in net overcollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) at socalgas in 2017 compared to a $293 million increase in 2016. over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts reflect the difference between customer billings and recorded or cpuc-authorized costs. these differences are required to be balanced over time; $145 million increase in permanent pipeline capacity release liability at sempra lng &amp; midstream in 2016. we discuss the permanent pipeline capacity releases in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $28 million increase in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) at sdg&amp;e in 2017 compared to a $55 million decrease in 2016; $ 70 million increase in income taxes receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 3 million decrease in 2016; and $ 83 million increase in accounts payable in 2017 compared to a $ 122 million increase in 2016. cash provided by operating activities at sempra energy decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $221 million net decrease in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2016 compared to a $274 million increase in 2015. the $221 million net decrease includes $654 million of cash expenditures, offset by $433 million of additional accruals; $268 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2016 compared to 2015, including charges for income tax benefits previously generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, as well as lower results at sempra lng &amp; midstream; $348 million net decrease in undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) in 2016 at the california utilities compared to a $544 million net decrease in 2015; $93 million higher income tax payments in 2016; and $20 million increase in inventory in 2016 compared to a $65 million decrease in 2015; offset by $122 million increase in accounts payable in 2016 compared to a $157 million decrease in 2015, primarily due to higher average cost of natural gas purchased at socalgas, as well as higher gas purchases as a result of the moratorium on natural gas injections at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility; 99 $145 million increase in permanent pipeline capacity release liability at sempra lng &amp; midstream; $42 million increase in accounts receivable in 2016 compared to a $99 million increase in 2015. the 2015 increase was primarily due to an increase in physical gas sales at socalgas; $281 million net increase in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2016 compared to a $325 million increase in 2015. the $281 million net increase in 2016 included $450 million of additional accruals, offset by $169 million in insurance proceeds; $36 million net decrease in ghg allowance purchases at the california utilities; and $23 million reduction to the songs regulatory asset due to cash received for sdg&amp;e's portion of the doe settlement with edison related to spent fuel storage, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e cash provided by operating activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 136 million decrease in income taxes receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 115 million increase in 2016, primarily due to timing of tax payments; $66 million decrease in ndt in 2017 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in the current year; $15 million in purchases of ghg allowances in 2017 compared to $58 million in 2016; and $ 75 million increase in accounts payable in 2017 compared to a $ 39 million increase in 2016; offset by $28 million increase in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) in 2017 compared to a $55 million decrease in 2016; $ 76 million increase in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 31 million increase in 2016; and $ 23 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016 . cash provided by operating activities at sdg&amp;e decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $55 million decrease in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) in 2016 compared to a $474 million decrease in 2015, primarily due to changes in electric commodity accounts; $49 million higher income tax payments in 2016; and $19 million increase in receivables due from affiliates in 2016 compared to a $21 million decrease in 2015; offset by $72 million higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2016 compared to 2015; $58 million in purchases of ghg allowances in 2016 compared to $117 million in 2015; and $23 million reduction to the songs regulatory asset due to cash received for sdg&amp;e's portion of the doe settlement with edison related to spent fuel storage. socalgas cash provided by operating activities at socalgas increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 188 million net decrease in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $ 281 million net increase in 2016. the $ 188 million net decrease in 2017 primarily includes $300 million in insurance proceeds received, offset by $112 million of additional accruals; $ 31 million net increase in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $ 221 million net decrease in 2016. the $ 31 million net increase in 2017 includes $130 million of additional accruals (including $20 million of litigation reserves charged to earnings), offset by $99 million of cash paid; $ 135 million higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016; $20 million net source of cash due to changes in other current assets and liabilities in 2017 compared to a $38 million net use of cash in 2016; and $ 72 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 37 million decrease in 2016; offset by $54 million increase in net overcollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) in 2017 compared to a $293 million increase in 2016; and $ 66 million increase in inventory in 2017 compared to a $ 4 million decrease in 2016. cash provided by operating activities at socalgas decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $221 million net decrease in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2016 compared to a $274 million increase in 2015. the $221 million net decrease includes $654 million of cash expenditures, offset by $433 million of additional accruals; 100 $4 million decrease in inventory in 2016 compared to a $102 million decrease in 2015. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to the moratorium on natural gas injections at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility; $72 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2016 compared to 2015; $40 million higher income tax payments in 2016; $10 million decrease in accrued compensation in 2016 compared to a $31 million increase in 2015; and $85 million in purchases of ghg allowances in 2016 compared to $62 million in 2015; offset by $36 million increase in accounts payable in 2016 compared to a $143 million decrease in 2015. the 2015 decrease was primarily due to the moratorium on natural gas injections at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, as well as lower average cost of natural gas purchased; $ 293 million increase in net overcollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts) in 2016 compared to a $70 million decrease in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts in 2015 , primarily due to changes in fixed-cost balancing accounts; $37 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2016 compared to a $90 million increase in 2015. the increase in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in physical gas sales; and $281 million net increase in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2016 compared to a $325 million increase in 2015. the $281 million net increase in 2016 included $450 million of additional accruals, offset by $169 million in insurance proceeds. cash flows from investing activities cash used in investing activities (dollars in millions) 2017 2017 change 2016 (1) 2016 change 2015 (1) sempra energy consolidated $ (4,700 ) $ (135 ) (3 )% $ (4,835 ) $ 1,967 69 % $ (2,868 ) sdg&amp;e (1,515 ) 191 14 (1,324 ) 247 23 (1,077 ) socalgas (1,363 ) 94 7 (1,269 ) (133 ) (9 ) (1,402 ) (1) reflects the adoption of asu 2016-15 and asu 2016-18, as we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy consolidated cash used in investing activities at sempra energy decreased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 1.2 billion decrease in expenditures for investments and acquisition of businesses, as we discuss below; and $ 265 million decrease in capital expenditures, as we discuss below; offset by $ 506 million higher advances to unconsolidated affiliates, mainly to the img joint venture to finance construction of a natural gas marine pipeline; $443 million net proceeds received from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of its 25-percent interest in rockies express in 2016; $318 million net proceeds received from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of energysouth in 2016; and $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years. cash used in investing activities at sempra energy increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to : $1.3 billion increase in expenditures for investments and acquisition of businesses; $1.1 billion increase in capital expenditures; $347 million of net proceeds received in 2015 from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of the remaining 625-mw block of its mesquite power plant and a related power sale contract; and $63 million lower repayments of advances to unconsolidated affiliates; offset by $443 million net proceeds received from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of its investment in rockies express in 2016; $318 million net proceeds from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of energysouth in 2016; and $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years, compared to a $60 million decrease in 2015. sdg&amp;e 101 cash used in investing activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 156 million increase in capital expenditures; and $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years; offset by $ 31 million decrease in advances to sempra energy in 2017 compared to a $ 31 million increase in 2016. cash used in investing activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $266 million increase in capital expenditures; and $31 million net advances to sempra energy; offset by $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years, compared to a $60 million decrease in 2015. socalgas cash used in investing activities at socalgas increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 50 million net decrease in advances to sempra energy in 2016; and $ 48 million increase in capital expenditures. cash used in investing activities at socalgas decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to: $50 million net decrease in advances to sempra energy in 2016 compared to a $50 million net increase in 2015; and $33 million lower capital expenditures . capital expenditures and investments sempra energy consolidated expenditures for pp&amp;e 102 the following table summarizes capital expenditures for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . expenditures for pp&amp;e (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 sdg&amp;e: improvements to electric and natural gas distribution systems, including certain pipeline safety and generation systems $ 966 $ 727 $ 639 psep 48 121 98 improvements to electric transmission systems 527 513 396 electric generation plants and equipment 14 38 socalgas: improvements to natural gas distribution, transmission and storage systems, and for certain pipeline safety 1,145 932 785 psep 194 292 361 advanced metering infrastructure 28 95 206 sempra south american utilities: improvements to electric transmission and distribution systems and generation projects in peru 151 134 98 improvements to electric transmission and distribution infrastructure in chile 93 60 56 sempra mexico: construction of the sonora, ojinaga and san isidro pipeline projects 183 302 278 construction of other natural gas pipeline and renewables projects, and capital expenditures at ecogas 65 28 24 sempra renewables: construction costs for wind projects 133 198 16 construction costs for solar projects 364 637 65 sempra lng &amp; midstream: cameron interstate pipeline and other lng liquefaction development costs 18 98 55 other 2 19 32 parent and other 18 20 47 total $ 3,949 $ 4,214 $ 3,156 sempra energy consolidated investments and acquisitions during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , sempra energy invested in various joint ventures and other businesses, summarized in the following table. expenditures for investments and acquisitions (1) (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2017 2016 (2) 2015 (2) sempra south american utilities: eletrans $ 1 $ $ sempra mexico: den 147 ienova pipelines 1,078 img 72 100 ventika 242 sempra renewables: expenditures for wind projects (3) 21 19 expenditures for solar projects 5 other 15 sempra lng &amp; midstream: cameron lng jv (4) 48 47 59 mississippi hub (5) 2 rockies express (6) 113 103 parent and other 2 1 total $ 270 $ 1,504 $ 198 (1) net of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash acquired. (2) reflects the adoption of asu 2016-15 and asu 2016-18, as we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. (3) excludes accrued purchase price of $5 million in 2015. (4) includes capitalized interest of $47 million, $47 million and $49 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, on sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment, as the joint venture has not commenced planned principal operations. (5) investment in industrial development bonds. (6) repayment of project debt that matured in early 2015. sempra energy consolidated distributions from investments sempra energy's distributions from investments, which represent the return of investment capital from equity method investments at sempra renewables, totaled $26 million , $25 million and $15 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. these amounts do not include distributions of earnings from equity method investments that represent returns on investments, which are included in cash flows from operations. future construction expenditures and investments the amounts and timing of capital expenditures and certain investments are generally subject to approvals by various regulatory and other governmental and environmental bodies, including the cpuc and the ferc. in 2018, we expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $13.3 billion , as summarized in the following table. future construction expenditures and investments (dollars in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 sdg&amp;e: improvements to electric and natural gas distribution systems, including certain pipeline safety and generation systems $ 835 psep 5 improvements to electric transmission systems 420 socalgas: improvements to natural gas distribution, transmission and storage systems, and for certain pipeline safety 1,000 psep 200 energy future holdings: merger consideration 9,450 capital contribution and transaction costs 250 sempra south american utilities: improvements to electric transmission and distribution systems and generation projects in peru 140 improvements to electric transmission and distribution infrastructure in chile 80 sempra mexico: construction of the pima, la rumorosa and tepezal ii solar projects 160 construction of liquid fuels terminals 240 improvements to natural gas transmission and distribution systems 120 sempra renewables: construction costs for wind and solar projects 100 sempra lng &amp; midstream: development of lng and natural gas transportation projects 320 total $ 13,320 we discuss significant capital projects, planned and in progress, at each of our segments in factors influencing future performance below. over the next five years, 2018 through 2022, and subject to the factors described below which could cause these estimates to vary substantially, sempra energy expects to make aggregate capital expenditures and investments of approximately $12.9 billion at the california utilities and $11.9 billion at its other subsidiaries. 104 capital expenditure amounts include capitalized interest. at the california utilities, the amounts also include the portion of afudc related to debt, but exclude the portion of afudc related to equity. at sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream, the amounts also exclude afudc related to equity. we provide further details about afudc in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. periodically, we review our construction, investment and financing programs and revise them in response to changes in regulation, economic conditions, competition, customer growth, inflation, customer rates, the cost and availability of capital, and safety and environmental requirements. we discuss these considerations in more detail in notes 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our level of capital expenditures and investments in the next few years may vary substantially and will depend on the cost and availability of financing, regulatory approvals, changes in u.s. federal tax law and business opportunities providing desirable rates of return. we intend to finance our capital expenditures in a manner that will maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure. cash flows from financing activities cash flows from financing activities (dollars in millions) 2017 2017 change 2016 (1) 2016 change 2015 (1) sempra energy consolidated $ 1,007 $ (1,495 ) $ 2,502 $ 2,678 $ (176 ) sdg&amp;e (23 ) (1 ) (22 ) 546 (568 ) socalgas 53 (499 ) 552 57 495 (1) reflects the adoption of asu 2016-15 and asu 2016-18, as we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy consolidated cash provided by financing activities at sempra energy decreased in 2017 primarily due to: $1.2 billion proceeds received in 2016 from the ienova follow-on common stock offerings, net of offering costs and sempra energy's participation, as we discuss in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $743 million higher payments on debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $828 million higher payments of commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.9 billion in 2017 compared to $1.07 billion in 2016), offset by $85 million lower payments on long-term debt ($906 million in 2017 compared to $991 million in 2016); $36 million net decrease in short-term debt in 2017 compared to a $692 million net increase in 2016; $196 million net proceeds from tax equity funding from certain wind and solar power generation projects at sempra renewables in 2017 compared to $474 million in 2016; $69 million increase in common stock dividends paid in 2017; and $67 million increase in net distributions to noncontrolling interests; offset by $1.6 billion higher issuances of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $1.4 billion for long-term debt ($3 billion in 2017 compared to $1.6 billion in 2016), and $172 million for commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.6 billion in 2017 compared to $1.4 billion in 2016). financing activities at sempra energy were a net source of cash in 2016 compared to a net use of cash in 2015, primarily due to: $692 million net increase in short-term debt in 2016 compared to a $622 million net decrease in 2015; $1.2 billion proceeds received from the ienova follow-on common stock offerings, net of offering costs and sempra energy's participation; and $474 million net proceeds from tax equity funding from certain wind and solar power generation projects at sempra renewables; offset by $203 million higher payments of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $255 million higher payments of long-term debt ($991 million in 2016 compared to $736 million in 2015), offset by $52 million lower payments of commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.07 billion in 2016 compared to $1.12 billion in 2015); $58 million increase in common stock dividends paid in 2016; 105 $52 million from excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation in 2015. in connection with the adoption of a new accounting standard related to share-based compensation, $34 million of similar excess tax benefits are now recorded to earnings and included as an operating activity beginning in 2016; and $41 million lower issuances of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $812 million lower issuances of long-term debt ($1.6 billion in 2016 compared to $2.4 billion in 2015), offset by $771 million higher issuances of commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.4 billion in 2016 compared to $633 million in 2015). sdg&amp;e cash used in financing activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 primarily due to: $275 million increase in common stock dividends paid in 2017; and $100 million lower issuances of long-term debt in 2017; offset by $253 million net increase in short-term debt in 2017 compared to a $114 million net decrease in 2016. cash used in financing activities at sdg&amp;e decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $343 million lower payments on long-term debt in 2016; $125 million decrease in common stock dividends paid in 2016; and $54 million higher issuances of long-term debt in 2016. socalgas cash provided by financing activities at socalgas decreased in 2017 primarily due to a $499 million issuance of long-term debt in 2016. cash provided by financing activities at socalgas increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to: $62 million increase in short-term debt in 2016 compared to a $50 million decrease in 2015; and $50 million common stock dividends paid in 2015; offset by $100 million lower issuances of long-term debt in 2016. long-term debt long-term debt (1) (dollars in millions) weighted-average at december 31, 2017 december 31, maturity interest 2017 2016 2015 (in years) rate sempra energy consolidated $ 17,872 $ 15,342 $ 14,041 10.8 4.18 % sdg&amp;e 5,555 4,849 4,505 14.8 4.25 socalgas 2,986 2,982 2,490 12.3 3.72 (1) includes current portion of long-term debt. issuances of long-term debt major issuances of long-term debt in 2017, 2016 and 2015 include the following: issuances of long-term debt (dollars in millions) amount at issuance maturity 2017: sempra energy variable-rate notes (2.038% at december 31, 2017) $ 850 2021 sempra energy 3.25% notes 750 2027 sdg&amp;e 3.75% first mortgage bonds 400 2047 luz del sur 6.375% corporate bonds 50 2023 luz del sur 5.9375% corporate bonds 50 2027 sempra mexico 4.875% notes 540 2048 sempra mexico 3.75% notes 300 2028 106 2016: sempra energy 1.625% notes 500 2019 sdg&amp;e 2.50% first mortgage bonds 500 2026 socalgas 2.60% first mortgage bonds 500 2026 luz del sur 6.50% corporate bonds 50 2025 2015: sempra energy 2.40% notes 500 2020 sempra energy 2.85% notes 400 2020 sempra energy 3.75% notes 350 2025 sdg&amp;e 1.914% first mortgage bonds 250 2022 sdg&amp;e variable-rate first mortgage bonds (1.151% at december 31, 2016) 140 2017 socalgas 3.20% first mortgage bonds 350 2025 socalgas 1.55% first mortgage bonds 250 2018 sempra energy and sempra mexico used the proceeds from their issuances of long-term debt primarily to repay outstanding commercial paper and short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. we discuss issuances of long-term debt further in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the california utilities used the proceeds from their issuances of long-term debt: for general working capital purposes; to support their electric (at sdg&amp;e) and natural gas (at sdg&amp;e and socalgas) procurement programs; to repay commercial paper, maturing long-term debt and certain long-term debt prior to maturity; and to replenish amounts expended and to fund future expenditures for the expansion and improvement of their utility plants. payments on long-term debt major payments of principal on long-term debt in 2017, 2016 and 2015 included the following: payments on long-term debt (dollars in millions) payments maturity 2017: sempra energy 2.3% notes $ 600 2017 sdg&amp;e variable-rate first mortgage bonds (1.151% at december 31, 2016) 140 2017 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 36 2022 luz del sur 5.81%-5.97% corporate bonds 43 2017 sempra mexico fixed and variable-rate notes 52 2024-2032 2016: sempra energy 6.5% notes 750 2016 sdg&amp;e 5% industrial development revenue bonds 105 2027 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 35 2022 luz del sur 5.05%-6% bank loans 62 2016 2015: sdg&amp;e 5.3% first mortgage bonds 250 2015 sdg&amp;e 4.9%-5.5% notes and industrial development revenue bonds 169 2021-2027 sdg&amp;e 366-day commercial paper 100 2015 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 18 2022 sempra mexico variable-rate notes 51 2017 sempra lng &amp; midstream variable-rate industrial development bonds 55 2037 in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we provide information about our lines of credit and additional information about debt activity. 107 capital stock transactions sempra energy cash provided by employee stock option exercises and newly issued shares under our dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase plan and our 401(k) saving plan was $47 million in 2017 $51 million in 2016 $52 million in 2015 dividends sempra energy sempra energy paid cash dividends on common stock of: $755 million in 2017 $686 million in 2016 $628 million in 2015 on december 15, 2017, sempra energy declared a quarterly dividend of $0.8225 per share of common stock that was paid on january 16, 2018. dividends declared have increased in each of the last three years due to an increase in the per-share quarterly dividends approved by our board of directors from $0.70 in 2015 ($2.80 annually) to $0.755 in 2016 ($3.02 annually) to $0.8225 in 2017 ($3.29 annually). on february 22, 2018, our board of directors approved an increase in sempra energy's quarterly common stock dividend to $0.895 per share ($3.58 annually). declarations of dividends on our common stock are made at the discretion of the board of directors. while we view dividends as an integral component of shareholder return, the amount of future dividends will depend on earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements, and other relevant factors at that time. in addition, on february 22, 2018, our board of directors declared a dividend of $1.60 per share on our mandatory convertible preferred stock, payable on april 15, 2018. sdg&amp;e in 2017, 2016 and 2015, sdg&amp;e paid dividends to enova and enova paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $450 million, $175 million and $300 million, respectively. sdg&amp;e's dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations, and could be impacted over the next few years in order for sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program (over $1.2 billion per year). enova, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of sdg&amp;e's outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by sdg&amp;e to enova and dividends paid by enova to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. socalgas socalgas declared and paid common stock dividends to pe and pe paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $50 million in 2015. as a result of socalgas' capital investment program of over $1 billion per year, socalgas has not declared or paid common stock dividends since 2015. socalgas' common stock dividends in the next few years will be impacted by its ability to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. pe, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of socalgas' outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by socalgas to pe and dividends paid by pe to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. dividend restrictions the board of directors for each of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas has the discretion to determine the payment and amount of future dividends by each such entity. the cpuc's regulation of sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' capital structures limits the amounts that are available for loans and dividends to sempra energy. at december 31, 2017, based on these regulations, sempra energy could have received loans and dividends of approximately $469 million from sdg&amp;e and $736 million from socalgas. 108 we provide additional information about dividend restrictions in restricted net assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. book value per share sempra energy's book value per share on the last day of each year was $50.40 in 2017 $51.77 in 2016 $47.56 in 2015 the decrease in 2017 was primarily the result of dividends exceeding comprehensive income, partially offset by an increase in equity from share-based compensation. in 2016, the increase was attributable to comprehensive income in excess of dividends, ienova's follow-on equity offerings and a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for previously unrecognized excess tax benefits from share-based compensation. capitalization our debt to capitalization ratio, calculated as total debt as a percentage of total debt and equity, was as follows: total capitalization and debt-to-capitalization ratios (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated (1) sdg&amp;e (1) socalgas december 31, 2017 total capitalization $ 34,552 $ 11,434 $ 7,009 debt-to-capitalization ratio 56 % 51 % 44 % december 31, 2016 total capitalization $ 32,362 $ 10,527 $ 6,554 debt-to-capitalization ratio 53 % 46 % 46 % (1) includes otay mesa vie with no significant impact. significant changes during 2017 that affected capitalization included the following: sempra energy consolidated: increase in long-term debt as well as dividends exceeding comprehensive income, partially offset by the sale of noncontrolling interests and a decrease in short-term debt. sdg&amp;e: increase in both long-term and short-term debt as well as dividends exceeding comprehensive income. socalgas: comprehensive income exceeding an increase in short-term debt. we provide additional information about these significant changes in notes 1 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 109 commitments the following tables summarize principal contractual commitments, primarily long-term, at december 31, 2017 for sempra energy consolidated, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. we provide additional information about commitments above and in notes 5, 7, 13 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. principal contractual commitments sempra energy consolidated (dollars in millions) 2018 2019 and 2020 2021 and 2022 thereafter total long-term debt $ 1,412 $ 2,452 $ 1,993 $ 11,282 $ 17,139 interest on long-term debt (1) 686 1,202 1,072 5,494 8,454 operating leases 98 132 115 346 691 capital leases (2) 17 35 45 1,192 1,289 purchased-power contracts 702 1,321 1,231 5,726 8,980 natural gas contracts 292 194 92 127 705 lng contract (3) 302 774 814 2,935 4,825 construction commitments 257 106 40 124 527 build-to-suit lease 10 21 22 234 287 songs decommissioning 72 141 139 255 607 other asset retirement obligations 73 170 152 1,875 2,270 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 3 6 6 104 119 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (4) 235 310 468 1,338 2,351 environmental commitments (5) 12 18 4 19 53 other 161 54 30 71 316 total $ 4,332 $ 6,936 $ 6,223 $ 31,122 $ 48,613 (1) we calculate expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. we calculate expected interest payments for variable-rate obligations based on forward rates in effect at december 31, 2017 . (2) present value of the net minimum lease payments includes $550 million at sdg&amp;e that will be recorded as a capital lease obligation when construction of the power plant facility subject to the lease is completed and delivery of contracted power commences, which is scheduled to occur in 2018. (3) sempra lng &amp; midstream has a purchase agreement with a major international company for the supply of lng to the eca terminal. the commitment amount is calculated using a predetermined formula based on estimated forward prices of the index applicable from 2018 to 2029. we provide more information about this contract in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. (4) amounts represent expected company contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. (5) excludes amounts related to the natural gas leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. principal contractual commitments sdg&amp;e (dollars in millions) 2018 2019 and 2020 2021 and 2022 thereafter total long-term debt $ 207 $ 357 $ 403 $ 3,901 $ 4,868 interest on long-term debt (1) 206 382 360 2,342 3,290 operating leases 24 45 41 57 167 capital leases (2) 14 34 45 1,189 1,282 purchased-power contracts 577 1,081 1,006 5,457 8,121 construction commitments 79 30 6 5 120 songs decommissioning 72 141 139 255 607 other asset retirement obligations 5 9 8 210 232 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 3 6 6 104 119 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (3) 51 25 95 247 418 environmental commitments 3 4 3 18 28 other 4 8 9 10 31 total $ 1,245 $ 2,122 $ 2,121 $ 13,795 $ 19,283 (1) sdg&amp;e calculates expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. (2) present value of the net minimum lease payments includes $550 million that will be recorded as a capital lease obligation when construction of the power plant facility subject to the lease is completed and delivery of contracted power commences, which is scheduled to occur in 2018. (3) amounts represent expected sdg&amp;e contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. 110 principal contractual commitments socalgas (dollars in millions) 2018 2019 and 2020 2021 and 2022 thereafter total long-term debt $ 500 $ $ $ 2,509 $ 3,009 interest on long-term debt (1) 100 189 189 1,055 1,533 natural gas contracts 108 88 56 81 333 operating leases 40 65 53 79 237 capital leases 1 1 construction commitments 3 4 7 environmental commitments (2) 7 14 1 2 24 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (3) 115 220 301 994 1,630 asset retirement obligations 68 161 144 1,580 1,953 other 1 3 3 24 31 total $ 943 $ 744 $ 747 $ 6,324 $ 8,758 (1) socalgas calculates interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations. (2) excludes amounts related to the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. (3) amounts represent expected socalgas contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. the tables exclude contracts between consolidated affiliates intercompany debt employment contracts the tables also exclude income tax liabilities at december 31, 2017 of: $57 million for sempra energy consolidated $10 million for sdg&amp;e $35 million for socalgas these liabilities relate to uncertain tax positions and were excluded from the tables because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future payments due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. we provide additional information about unrecognized tax benefits in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. off-balance sheet arrangements the maximum aggregate amount of guarantees provided by sempra energy on behalf of related parties at december 31, 2017 is $4.5 billion. we discuss these guarantees in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have bilateral unsecured standby letter of credit capacity with select lenders that is uncommitted and supported by reimbursement agreements. at december 31, 2017, we had approximately $629 million in standby letters of credit outstanding under these agreements. sdg&amp;e has entered into ppas which are variable interests. sempra renewables has entered into tax equity arrangements which are variable interests. sempra energy's other businesses may also enter into arrangements which could include variable interests. we discuss variable interests in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. factors influencing future performance sempra energy pending acquisition of energy future holdings corp. on august 21, 2017, sempra energy entered into a merger agreement to acquire efh, the indirect owner of an 80.03-percent interest in oncor, for merger consideration of $9.45 billion in cash. oncor is a regulated electric distribution and transmission 111 business that operates the largest distribution and transmission system in texas. we expect the merger to close in the first half of 2018. upon consummation of the acquisition, although we will consolidate efh, we will account for our ownership in oncor holdings and oncor as an equity method investment. we discuss this merger and related financing in notes 3 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, capital resources and liquidity above, item 1. business, item 1a. risk factors and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of the puct. certain conditions, such as approval from the bankruptcy court, the ferc, the vermont department of financial regulation and receipt of a private letter ruling from the irs, have been satisfied. if the required governmental consents and approvals are not received, or if they are not received on terms that satisfy the conditions in the agreements governing the merger, the merger could be abandoned, delayed or restructured. the agreements governing the merger may require us to accept conditions from regulators that could materially adversely impact the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of sempra energy (which after giving effect to the assumed completion of our proposed acquisition of efh, we refer to as the combined company ). oncor performance the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including several objectives that are capital intensive, and to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all and the merger may materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company and, consequently, the market value of sempra energy common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. in addition, if oncor fails to meet its capital requirements or if its credit ratings at closing by any one of the three major rating agencies are below the ratings as of june 30, 2017, we may be required to make additional equity investments in oncor, or if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional equity investments in oncor, which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects after the merger. in addition, we have agreed that, within 60 days after the merger, we will contribute our proportionate share of the aggregate investment in oncor in an amount necessary for oncor to achieve a capital structure consisting of 57.5 percent long-term debt and 42.5 percent equity, as calculated for regulatory purposes. financing and dilution we intend to ultimately finance the merger consideration of $9.45 billion, along with the associated transaction costs, with approximately 65 percent from issuances of common stock and other equity securities and approximately 35 percent from issuances of debt securities, although we may use cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales in place of some equity financing. on january 9, 2018, we issued approximately $1.69 billion (net of underwriting discounts, but before deducting related expenses) of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and $368 million of common stock (net of underwriting discounts, but before deducting related expenses), and we completed an offering of 23,364,486 common shares subject to forward sale agreements, which we expect to settle in whole or in part by the issuance of common stock in the future. these equity issuances and contemplated equity issuances will have the effect of diluting the economic and voting interests of our shareholders and, without a commensurate increase in sempra energy's earnings, would dilute our eps. absence of control in accordance with the ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments we made as part of the joint application and the stipulation, we will be subject to certain restrictions following the merger. the stipulation includes regulatory commitments by sempra energy, most of which are similar to the regulatory commitments made by sempra energy as part of the joint application and are consistent with the ring-fencing measures currently in place. the ring-fencing measures, commitments, governance mechanisms and restrictions include the following, among others: a majority of the independent directors of oncor must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or operating and maintenance expenditures in such budget is more than a 10 percent increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts of such expenditures in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable; oncor will make minimum aggregate capital expenditures equal to at least $7.5 billion over the period from january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2022 (subject to certain possible adjustments); sempra energy has agreed to make, within 60 days after the merger, its proportionate share of the aggregate equity investment in oncor in an amount necessary for oncor to achieve a capital structure consisting of 57.5 percent long-term debt and 42.5 112 percent equity, as calculated for regulatory purposes (until recently, oncor's regulatory capital structure required 40 percent equity, with the remaining 60 percent as debt); oncor may not pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements; at all times, oncor will remain in compliance with the debt-to-equity ratio established by the puct from time to time for ratemaking purposes, and oncor will not pay dividends or other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct; sempra energy will ensure that, as of the closing of the merger, oncor's credit rating by all three major rating agencies will be at or above oncor's credit ratings as of june 30, 2017; if the credit rating on oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; without the prior approval of the puct, neither sempra energy nor any of its affiliates (excluding oncor) will incur, guarantee or pledge assets in respect of any indebtedness that is dependent on the revenues of oncor in more than a proportionate degree than the other revenues of sempra energy or on the stock of oncor, and there will be no debt at efh or efih at any time following the closing of the merger; neither oncor nor oncor holdings will lend money to or borrow money from sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, and neither oncor nor oncor holdings will share credit facilities with sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings; oncor will not seek recovery in rates of any expenses or liabilities related to efh's bankruptcy, or (1) any tax liabilities resulting from efh's spinoff of its former subsidiary texas competitive electric holdings company llc, (2) any asbestos claims relating to non-oncor operations of efh or (3) any make-whole claims by holders of debt securities issued by efh or efih, and sempra energy must file with the puct a plan providing for the extinguishment of the liabilities described in items (1) through (3) above, which protects oncor from any harm; there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from efh and efh's owners, including a requirement that dealings between oncor, oncor holdings and their subsidiaries and sempra energy, any of sempra energy's other affiliates or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, must be on an arm's-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions, separate recordkeeping requirements and a prohibition on pledging oncor assets or stock for any entity other than oncor; no transaction costs or transition costs related to the merger (excluding oncor employee time) will be borne by oncor's customers nor included in oncor's rates; sempra energy will continue to hold indirectly at least 51 percent of the ownership interests in oncor and oncor holdings for at least five years following the closing of the merger, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the puct; and oncor will provide bill credits to customers in an amount equal to 90 percent of any interest rate savings achieved due to any improvement in its credit ratings or market spreads compared to those as of june 30, 2017 until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate case filed after puct docket no. 46957 (except that savings will not be included in credits if already realized in rates); and one year after the merger, oncor will provide bill credits to its customers equal to 90 percent of any synergy savings until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate proceeding after puct docket no. 46957, at which time any total synergy savings shall be reflected in oncor's rates. as a result of these regulatory commitments, governance mechanisms and restrictions, we will not control oncor holdings or oncor, and we will have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. we will have limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor boards of directors, which will be controlled by independent directors. in addition, we will not be allowed to make loans to oncor or oncor holdings. the existence of these ring-fencing measures and other limitations may increase our costs of financing. further, the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent that they take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined company may be materially adversely affected. 113 key personnel at oncor if, despite efforts to retain certain key personnel at oncor, any key personnel depart or fail to continue employment as a result of the merger, the loss of the services of such personnel and their experience and knowledge could adversely affect oncor's results of operations, financial condition and prospects and the successful ongoing operation of its business, which could also have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 we discuss the tcja that was signed into law on december 22, 2017 in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and above in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes and capital resources and liquidity impacts of the tcja. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. its performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the california legislature and the changing energy marketplace. 114 capital project updates we summarize below information regarding certain major capital projects at sdg&amp;e. capital projects sdg&amp;e project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status cleveland national forest electric line replacement projects may 2016 cpuc final decision followed approval by the u.s. forest service and granted a permit to construct various electric transmission line replacement projects in and around cnf to promote fire safety, at an estimated total cost of $680 million: $455 million for the various transmission-level facilities and $225 million for associated distribution-level facilities, including distribution circuits and additional undergrounding, as required by the u.s. forest service final environmental impact statement. $ 680 estimated completion: in phases through 2020 in july 2016, the cnf foundation and the protect our communities foundation filed a joint application request for rehearing of the final decision. the cpuc does not have a specific deadline to rule on the request and has not yet acted. sycamore-pe asquitos transmission project october 2016 cpuc final decision granted a cpcn to construct a 230-kv transmission project to provide 16.7-mile connection between sycamore canyon and pe asquitos substations to ensure grid reliability and access to renewable energy, at an estimated cost not to exceed $260 million. $ 260 estimated completion: 2018 south orange county reliability enhancement december 2016 cpuc final decision granted a cpcn to replace/upgrade existing 230-kv electric transmission lines and substation infrastructure to enhance the capacity and reliability of electric service to the south orange county area, at an estimated cost not to exceed $381 million. $ 381 construction began in the fourth quarter of 2017. in june 2017, the city of san juan capistrano filed a complaint to challenge the cpuc's approval of the project in the u.s. district court for the central district of california. the federal district court dismissed the complaint in october 2017. in october 2017, a cpuc order denied rehearing requests filed by the city of san juan capistrano and a local opposition group. in november 2017, the city of san juan capistrano appealed the federal district court's dismissal to the u.s. court of appeals for the ninth circuit. in february 2018, the city of san juan capistrano filed with the ninth circuit to stay the cpuc's authorization to construct the project pending review of the appeal by the court. electric vehicle charging january 2016 cpuc final decision authorizes a 3-year, $45 million program providing up to 3,500 ev charging units. $ 45 estimated completion: 2020 january 2017 application, pursuant to sb 350, to perform various activities and make investments in support of residential ev charging with an estimated implementation cost of $51 million of o&amp;m. $ 322 application amended in the fourth quarter of 2017 and is pending. received approval of $20 million for six priority projects in january 2018. draft decision expected in the first half of 2018 for remaining $302 million. january 2018 application, pursuant to sb 350, to make investments to support medium-duty and high-duty evs with an estimated implementation cost of $7 million of o&amp;m. $ 226 application pending: draft decision expected in first quarter of 2019. 115 capital projects sdg&amp;e (continued) project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status energy storage projects 2016 expedited application to own and operate two energy storage projects totaling 37.5 mw to enhance electric reliability in the san diego service territory. not disclosed completed in first quarter of 2017. april 2017 application to procure up to 70 mw of utility-owned energy storage to provide local capacity. not disclosed application pending; draft decision expected in first half of 2018. utility billing and customer information systems software april 2017 application to replace the software, with an estimated implementation cost of $76 million of o&amp;m. $ 222 application pending; joint party settlement filed january 2018; draft decision expected in first half of 2018. sunrise powerlink project cost cap in august 2015, sdg&amp;e filed a petition with the cpuc requesting that it revise and confirm the project cost cap for the sunrise powerlink, a 500-kv electric transmission line between the imperial valley and the san diego region that was energized and placed in service in june 2012. while post-energization construction activities for the project were completed in 2013, certain matters relating to outstanding claims were not resolved until the first quarter of 2015. the filing requested cpuc approval of the final expenditure report for the project and the proposed revisions to the total project cost cap. as evidenced in the final report, actual expenditures for the project totaled $1.9 billion (in 2012 dollars, on a net present value basis), which exceeds the total project cost cap approved by the cpuc in 2008 by $4.4 million. in june 2017, the cpuc dismissed sdg&amp;e's petition as moot since the sunrise powerlink transmission project has been fully constructed and found that, although the cpuc may establish a cost cap for electric transmission projects, the recovery of the associated costs is under ferc jurisdiction. the decision also found that sdg&amp;e complied with the cpuc's quarterly reporting requirements, resolving the issue of whether the adequacy of such reporting should be further investigated. electric rate reform california assembly bill 327 ab 327 became law on january 1, 2014 and restores the authority to establish electric residential rates for electric utility companies in california to the cpuc and removes the rate caps established in ab 1x adopted in early 2001 during california's energy crisis and in sb 695 adopted in 2009. additionally, the bill provides the cpuc the authority to adopt a monthly fixed charge for all residential customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that established comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision directed changes beginning in the summer of 2015 and provides a path for continued reforms through 2020. the changes also included fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the difference between the tiered rates, similar to the tier differential that existed prior to the 2000-2001 energy crisis. for sdg&amp;e, the number of tiers was reduced from four to three in 2015 and was reduced to two on july 1, 2016. the rate differential between the highest and lowest tiers was reduced in 2016, with further reductions intended to reach a differential of 1.25 times as early as 2019. the decision also directs the utilities to pursue expanded tou rates and implemented a high usage surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent. the decision allows the utilities to seek a fixed charge for residential customers, but sets certain conditions for its implementation, which would be no sooner than 2020. in january 2017, the cpuc also approved a tou rulemaking that provides a framework and guiding principles for designing, implementing, and modifying the time periods in tou rates for residential customers. in december 2017, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting approval to implement residential default tou rates effective january 1, 2019, and a new residential fixed charge and a higher minimum bill effective january 1, 2020. these changes, if and when fully implemented, should result in significant rate relief for higher-use sdg&amp;e customers who do not exceed the high usage surcharge threshold and should result in a rate structure that better aligns rates with the actual cost to serve customers. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327. the nem program was originally established in 1995 and is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail-rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds its own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual 116 measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, the customer receives compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. in january 2016, the cpuc adopted modest changes to the nem program to require nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. together with a reduction in tiered rate differentials and the potential implementation of a fixed charge discussed above, the nem successor tariff begins a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers. in 2016, sdg&amp;e implemented the cpuc-adopted successor nem tariff, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the prior nem program. appropriate nem reform is necessary to help ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations were to increase substantially through 2019 when more significant reforms are to take effect, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors. distributed energy storage california assembly bill 2868 ab 2868, signed into law in september 2016, requires the cpuc to direct electrical corporations, including sdg&amp;e, to file applications for programs and investments to accelerate the widespread deployment of distributed energy storage systems. ab 2868 sets a cap of 500 mw statewide, divided equally among the state's three largest electrical corporations (sdg&amp;e's share being 166 mw); requires that no more than 25 percent of the capacity of distributed energy storage systems be on the customer side of the utility meter; and requires the cpuc to prioritize these programs and investments for the public sector and low-income customers. potential impacts of community choice aggregation and direct access sdg&amp;e provides electric services, including the commodity of electricity, to the majority of its customers ( bundled customers ). sdg&amp;e enters into long-term contracts to procure electricity on behalf of these bundled customers. sdg&amp;e's earnings are decoupled from electric sales volumes. one aspect of decoupling is that commodity costs for electricity are directly passed through to bundled customers (see discussion in revenues - california utilities in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). sdg&amp;e's bundled customers have the option to purchase the commodity of electricity from alternate suppliers under defined programs, including cca and da. in such cases, california law (sb 350) prohibits remaining bundled customers from experiencing any cost increase as a result of departing customers' choice to receive electric commodity from an alternate supplier. under the existing cost allocation mechanism approved by the cpuc, customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb a portion of above-market cost of electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. the existing cost allocation rate mechanisms may not be sufficient to ensure that remaining bundled customers do not experience any cost increase as a result of departing customers. sdg&amp;e, pg&amp;e and edison filed a joint application with the cpuc in april 2017 to replace the existing cost allocation mechanisms to help ensure compliance with state law intended to protect bundled customers. in june 2017, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to address the existing cost allocation mechanism and dismissed the joint application without prejudice, directing that the proposal be addressed in the rulemaking proceeding. we expect a decision on a revised cost allocation mechanism in 2018, with implementation in 2019. currently, da in sdg&amp;e's service area is limited by state law and is approximately 17 percent of sdg&amp;e's annual demand. there are no large cca providers in sdg&amp;e's service area. however, several local political jurisdictions, including the city of san diego and a few other municipalities, are considering the formation of a cca which, if implemented, could result in the departure of more than half of sdg&amp;e's bundled load. for example, solana beach (representing less than 1 percent of sdg&amp;e's customer accounts) has elected to begin cca service in 2018. if an effective cost allocation mechanism is not in place at the time of potentially significant reductions in sdg&amp;e's served load, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could bear a disproportionate share of above-market costs of long-term electricity procurement contracts entered into before the load departed. thus, bundled customers could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under long-term commitments made on behalf of the cca customers prior to their departure. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. renewable energy procurement sdg&amp;e is subject to the rps program administered by both the cpuc and the cec, which requires each california utility to procure 50 percent of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2030. 117 the rps program currently contains flexible compliance mechanisms that can be used to comply with or meet the rps program mandates. the mechanisms provide for a cpuc waiver under certain conditions, including: 1) a finding of inadequate transmission; 2) delays in the start-up of commercial operations of renewable energy projects due to permitting or interconnection; or 3) unexpected curtailment by an electric system balancing authority, such as the caiso. sdg&amp;e has procured renewable energy supplies from certain suppliers whose assets are not yet online. some of these assets remain contingent on electric transmission infrastructure, regulatory approval, project permitting and financing, and the implementation of new technologies. sdg&amp;e believes it will continue to comply with the rps program requirements based on its contracting activity and, if necessary, application of the flexible compliance mechanisms. sdg&amp;e's failure to comply with the rps program requirements could subject it to cpuc-imposed penalties, which could materially adversely affect its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the cpuc has neither audited our rps program compliance nor provided us with clearance for any compliance periods. clean energy and pollution reduction act california senate bill 350 sb 350 creates new requirements in the areas of renewable energy procurement, energy efficiency, resource planning, and ev infrastructure. the measure requires all load serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that will ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in ghg emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. sb 350 also clearly specifies that the utilities will file applications with the cpuc that highlight how they can help with the development and expansion of the electric charging infrastructure necessary to support the growth of the ev market expected due to the state's alternative fuel vehicle policy initiative. we expect to meet the higher rps and ghg emissions reductions requirements and are supportive of greater infrastructure development to promote ev charging. songs sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors, we discuss regulatory and other matters related to songs, including: the revised settlement agreement, which is subject to cpuc approval, that provides a different cost allocation among ratepayers and shareholders associated with the premature shutdown of songs units 2 and 3 than the 2014 agreement; matters concerning the ability to timely withdraw funds from trust accounts for the payment of decommissioning costs; and the arbitration decision finding mhi liable for breach of contract in connection with the replacement steam generators at the songs nuclear power plant, subject to a contractual limitation of liability, and awarding mhi 95 percent of its arbitration costs as mhi was found to be the prevailing party. wildfire claims cost recovery in september 2015, sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting rate recovery of an estimated $379 million in costs related to the october 2007 wildfires that had been recorded as a wildfire regulatory asset, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in response to our application seeking recovery, the cpuc issued a final decision on december 6, 2017, upholding the proposed decision denying sdg&amp;e's request to recover the 2007 wildfire costs submitted in our application. accordingly, sdg&amp;e wrote off the wildfire regulatory asset, resulting in a charge of $351 million ($208 million after-tax) in the third quarter of 2017, in write-off of wildfire regulatory asset on the consolidated statements of operations for sempra energy and sdg&amp;e. sdg&amp;e will continue to vigorously pursue recovery of these costs, which were incurred through settling claims brought under inverse condemnation principles, after the trial court denied sdg&amp;e's motion to dismiss the plaintiffs' inverse condemnation claims and the appellate courts declined to review the trial court's ruling. sdg&amp;e applied to the cpuc for rehearing of its decision on january 2, 2018. the cpuc may grant a rehearing, modify its decision, or deny the request and affirm its original decision. we will appeal the decision with the california courts of appeal seeking to reverse the cpuc's decision, if necessary. with respect to the 2007 wildfires, based on the trial court's ruling that inverse condemnation claims would apply, we were subject to a strict liability standard. however, at this point, we have been denied recovery by the cpuc of our non-ferc related costs. insurance coverage for wildfires has significantly increased in cost and may become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable, and any insurance proceeds we receive for wildfire events may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the inability to procure a sufficient amount of insurance and/or the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could 118 materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. socalgas socalgas' operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. its performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the california legislature and the changing energy marketplace. socalgas' performance will also depend on the resolution of the legal, regulatory and other matters concerning the leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, which we discuss below, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors. in addition to general recurring improvements to its transmission and storage systems, over the next several years, socalgas expects to make significant capital expenditures for pipeline safety projects pursuant to the psep. we discuss these capital projects in california utilities joint matters below. aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility (the leak) located in los angeles county, which socalgas has operated as a natural gas storage facility since 1972. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak. in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to a stipulation and order by the la superior court, socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it before the well was permanently sealed. following the permanent sealing of the well, the dph conducted testing in certain homes in the porter ranch community, and concluded that indoor conditions did not present a long-term health risk and that it was safe for residents to return home. in may 2016, the la superior court ordered socalgas to offer to clean residents' homes at socalgas' expense as a condition to ending the relocation program. socalgas completed the residential cleaning program and the relocation program ended in july 2016. in may 2016, the dph also issued a directive that socalgas additionally professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five-mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and experienced symptoms from the leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts have been significant and may increase, and we may be subject to potentially significant damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs. to the extent any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. insurance excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we have been communicating with our insurance carriers and intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage. through december 31, 2017, we have received $469 million of insurance proceeds for portions of control-of-well expenses, lost gas and temporary relocation costs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. at december 31, 2017, socalgas estimates that its costs related to the leak are $913 million , which includes $887 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, costs not included in the cost estimate of $913 million could be material. the actions against us seek compensatory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $913 million cost estimate as it is not 119 possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs. the recorded amounts above also do not include costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directive, future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, our cost estimate of $913 million does not include certain other costs expensed by sempra energy through december 31, 2017 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits (for which we would seek recovery under our directors' and officers' liability insurance policies). to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we provide further detail regarding costs related to the leak. litigation in connection with the leak, as of february 22, 2018, 373 lawsuits, including over 45,000 plaintiffs, are pending against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. derivative and securities claims have also been filed on behalf of sempra energy and/or socalgas or their shareholders against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas. in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we provide further detail on these cases, as well as on complaints filed by the california attorney general, acting in an independent capacity and on behalf of the people of the state of california and the carb, together with the los angeles city attorney; and a complaint filed by the county of los angeles, on behalf of itself and the people of the state of california; and on a misdemeanor criminal complaint filed by the los angeles county district attorney's office. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility incident or our responses thereto. the costs of defending against these civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with these investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations various governmental agencies have investigated or are investigating this incident. in january 2016, the governor of the state of california issued an order (the governor's order) proclaiming a state of emergency in los angeles county due to the leak. the governor's order imposes various orders with respect to: stopping the leak; protecting public health and safety; ensuring accountability; and strengthening oversight. we provide further detail regarding the governor's order and the carb's aliso canyon methane leak climate impacts mitigation program , issued pursuant to the governor's order, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct an independent analysis under their direction and supervision to be funded by socalgas to investigate the technical root cause of the leak. the timing of the root cause analysis is under the control of blade energy partners, doggr and the cpuc. in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region, as we discuss below in regulatory proceedings and sb 380. regulatory proceedings in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. the cpuc indicated it intends to conduct the proceeding in two phases, with phase 1 undertaking a comprehensive effort to develop the appropriate analyses and scenarios to evaluate the impact of reducing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and phase 2 evaluating the impacts of reducing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility using the scenarios and models adopted in phase 1. in accordance with the phase 1 schedule, public participation hearings began in april 2017, and workshops and additional public participation hearings are expected to occur. section 455.5 of the california public utilities code, among other things, directs regulated utilities to notify the cpuc if all or any portion of a major facility has been out of service for nine consecutive months. although socalgas does not believe the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or any portion of the facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, socalgas provided notification out of an abundance of caution to demonstrate its commitment to regulatory compliance and transparency, and because obtaining authorization to resume injection operations at the facility required more time than initially contemplated. in response, and as required by section 455.5, the cpuc issued an oii to address whether the aliso canyon natural gas storage 120 facility or any portion of the facility was out of service for nine consecutive months within the meaning of section 455.5, and if so, whether the cpuc should disallow the costs for such period from socalgas' rates. under section 455.5, hearings on the investigation are to be held, if necessary, in conjunction with socalgas' 2019 grc proceeding. if the cpuc determines that all or any portion of the facility was out of service for nine consecutive months, the amount of any refund to ratepayers and the inability to earn a return on those assets could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. in march 2016, the cpuc ordered socalgas to establish a memorandum account to prospectively track its authorized revenue requirement and all revenues that it receives for its normal, business-as-usual costs to own and operate the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and, in september 2016, approved socalgas' request to begin tracking these revenues as of march 17, 2016. the cpuc will determine later whether, and to what extent, the authorized revenues tracked in the memorandum account may be refunded to ratepayers. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. beginning october 25, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor of the state of california, and in accordance with sb 380, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. in april and june of 2017, socalgas advised the caiso, cec, cpuc and phmsa of its concerns that the inability to inject natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility posed a risk to energy reliability in southern california. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were made in 2017 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. on july 19, 2017, doggr issued its order to: test and take temporary actions upon resuming injection: aliso canyon gas storage facility , lifting the prohibition on injection at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, subject to certain requirements after injection resumed, including limitations on the rate at which socalgas may withdraw natural gas from the field. the cpuc additionally issued a directive to socalgas to maintain a range of working gas in the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility at a target of 23.6 bcf (approximately 28 percent of its maximum capacity), and at all times above 14.8 bcf, later amended to require the range be maintained from zero bcf to 24.6 bcf of working gas. in july 2017, the county of los angeles sought a temporary restraining order to block doggr's order; the superior court ruled that it lacks jurisdiction to rule on the county's application. we provide further detail regarding doggr's order and the county of los angeles' petition in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. having completed the steps outlined by state agencies to safely begin injections at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, as of july 31, 2017, socalgas resumed limited injections. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were determined to have been out of service for any meaningful period of time or permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2017, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility has a net book value of $644 million , including $252 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compressor station. any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. increased regulation phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, may be scheduled, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. the los angeles county board of supervisors has formed a task force to review and potentially implement new, more stringent land use (zoning) requirements and associated regulations and enforcement protocols for oil and gas activities, including natural gas storage field operations, which could materially affect new or modified uses of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and other natural gas storage fields located in los angeles county. 121 pipes act of 2016 in june 2016, the protecting our infrastructure of pipelines and enhancing safety act of 2016 or the pipes act of 2016 was enacted. among other things, the pipes act of 2016: requires phmsa to issue, within two years of passage, minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage facilities; imposes a user fee on underground storage facilities as needed to implement the safety standards; grants phmsa authority to issue emergency orders and impose emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for hearing, if the u.s. secretary of energy determines that an unsafe condition or practice, or a combination of unsafe conditions and practices, constitutes or is causing an imminent hazard; and directs the u.s. secretary of energy to establish an interagency task force comprised of representatives from various federal agencies and representatives of state and local governments. in december 2016, phmsa published an interim final rule pursuant to the pipes act of 2016 that revises the federal pipeline safety regulations relating to underground natural gas storage facilities. the interim final rule incorporates consensus safety measures for the construction, maintenance, risk-management, and integrity-management procedures for natural gas storage. socalgas began the process of implementing such safety measures prior to formal adoption by phmsa and is developing the associated documents and procedures required to demonstrate compliance with the standards. sb 380 in may 2016, sb 380 became law and required, as conditions for the resumption of natural gas injections into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, a comprehensive review of the safety of the gas storage wells at the facility, and reconfiguration of all gas storage wells returning to service such that natural gas flows only through the interior metal tubing and not through the annulus between the tubing and the well casing. both conditions were completed in july 2017. sb 380 further requires a cpuc proceeding (which was opened in february 2017) to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region, and the cpuc to consult with various governmental agencies and other entities in making its determination. the order establishing the scope of the proceeding expressly excludes issues with respect to air quality, public health, causation, culpability or cost responsibility regarding the leak. in july 2017, doggr issued an order lifting the prohibition of the injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and the cpuc's executive director issued his concurrence with that determination, subject to certain conditions. the county of los angeles filed a petition for writ of mandate against doggr and its state oil and gas supervisor and the cpuc and its executive director, as to which socalgas is the real party in interest, alleging that doggr failed to properly conduct the comprehensive safety review required by sb 380 and failed to perform an eir pursuant to ceqa. the petition seeks a writ of mandate requiring doggr and the state oil and gas supervisor to comply with sb 380 and ceqa, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief against any authorization to inject natural gas. socalgas completed the steps outlined by state agencies to safely begin injections at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and, as of july 31, 2017, resumed limited injections. we provide further detail regarding doggr's order and the petition filed by the county of los angeles above under the heading natural gas storage operations and reliability and in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sb 888 in september 2016, sb 888 became law, which requires that a penalty assessed against a gas corporation by the cpuc with regard to a natural gas storage facility leak must at least equal the amount necessary to fully offset the impact on the climate from the ghgs emitted by the leak, as determined by the carb. the cpuc also must consider the extent to which the gas corporation has mitigated or is in the process of mitigating the impact on the climate from ghg emissions resulting from the leak. additional safety enhancements in february 2017, socalgas notified the cpuc that it is accelerating its well integrity assessments on the natural gas storage wells at its la goleta, honor rancho and playa del rey natural gas storage fields consistent with the testing prescribed by sb 380 for the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, proposed new doggr regulations, and socalgas' storage risk management plan. in addition, socalgas indicated its plan to reconfigure its operating natural gas storage wells such that natural gas will be injected or produced only through the interior metal tubing and not through the annulus between the tubing and the well casing to maintain a double barrier and additional layer of safety, which is consistent with the direction of federal and state regulations. socalgas anticipates that this work will reduce the injection and withdrawal capacity of each of these other storage fields. 122 depending on the volume of natural gas in storage in each field at the time natural gas is injected or withdrawn, the reduction could be significant and could impact natural gas reliability and electric generation. in march 2017, socalgas revised its plan, as directed by the cpuc, for converting all wells to tubing-only operation to maintain a prescribed withdrawal capacity through the summer. on december 1, 2017, socalgas sent a letter to the cpuc and doggr informing them that it is proceeding with its planned acceleration of well integrity assessments on the natural gas storage wells at its la goleta, honor rancho and playa del rey natural gas storage fields. as such, socalgas now only operates storage wells in the tubing-only operational configuration at all of its storage fields. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. socalgas billing practices in may 2017, the cpuc issued an oii to determine whether socalgas violated any provisions of the california public utilities code, general orders, cpuc decisions, or other requirements pertaining to billing practices from 2014 through 2016. in particular, the cpuc is examining the timeliness of monthly bills, extending the billing period for customers, and issuing estimated bills. under the oii, the cpuc will also examine socalgas' gas tariff rules and consider whether to impose penalties or other remedies. we expect a decision on the oii in 2018. california utilities joint matters we refer to sdg&amp;e and socalgas collectively as the california utilities, which do not include the utilities in our other segments. capital project updates we summarize below information regarding certain joint capital projects of the california utilities. joint capital projects california utilities project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status pipeline safety &amp; reliability project september 2015 application and march 2016 amended application seeking authority to recover the estimated $633 million cost of the project, involving construction of an approximately 47-mile, 36-inch natural gas transmission pipeline in san diego county. $ 633 procedural schedule set for two phases to address (1) long-term need and planning assumptions, and (2) costs, alternatives and environmental impacts. we expect a phase 1 draft decision in the first half of 2018, a draft eir by august 2018, and phase 2 to follow the draft eir. would implement pipeline safety requirements and modernize system; improve system reliability and resiliency by minimizing dependence on a single pipeline; and enhance operational flexibility to manage stress conditions by increasing system capacity. pipeline safety enhancement plan march 2017 application filed with the cpuc to recover forecasted costs associated with twelve phase 1b and phase 2a pipeline safety projects. $ 198 application pending; draft decision expected in second half of 2018. estimated implementation cost of $57 million of o&amp;m at socalgas. mobile home park utility upgrade program may 2017 application filed with the cpuc to convert an additional 20 percent of eligible units to direct utility service, for a total of 30 percent of mobile homes. $ 471 application pending to september 2017 resolution approved extension of pilot program through the earlier of 2019 or the issuance of a cpuc decision on pending applications, while also allowing an increase from 10 percent to 15 percent of mobile homes to be converted. $ 508 estimated implementation cost of $2 million of o&amp;m at sdg&amp;e and $3 million to $4 million of o&amp;m at socalgas. 123 cpuc general rate case the cpuc uses a grc proceeding to set sufficient rates to allow the california utilities to recover their reasonable cost of o&amp;m and to provide the opportunity to realize their authorized rates of return on their investment. 2019 general rate case on october 6, 2017, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed their 2019 grc applications requesting cpuc approval of test year revenue requirements for 2019 and attrition year adjustments for 2020 through 2022. as part of the 2019 grc, the cpuc will review the california utilities' interim accountability reports which compare the authorized and actual spending for certain safety-related activities for 2014 through 2016. in june 2017, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed their first interim accountability reports comparing authorized and actual spending in 2014 and 2015 for certain safety-related activities. similar data for 2016 was provided with the 2019 grc filings in a second interim accountability report. the stated purpose of the interim accountability reports is to provide data and metrics for key safety and risk mitigation areas that will be considered in the 2019 grc. the results of the rate case may materially and adversely differ from what is contained in the grc applications. 2016 general rate case in june 2016, the cpuc approved a 2016 grc fd in the california utilities' 2016 grc, which was effective retroactive to january 1, 2016 and established their authorized 2016 revenue requirements and the ratemaking mechanisms by which those requirements would change on an annual basis over the applicable three-year (2016-2018) period. the adopted revenue requirements associated with the seven-month period through july 2016 were recovered in rates over a 17-month period, beginning in august 2016. the 2016 grc fd also resulted in certain accounting and financial impacts associated with bonus depreciation, flow-through income tax repairs deductions related to prior years, and the treatment of differences between income tax incurred and income tax forecasted in the grc for 2016 through 2018. we discuss the 2019 and 2016 grcs in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. cost of capital update in july 2017, the cpuc issued a final decision that provides a two-year extension for each of the utilities to file its next respective cost of capital application, extending the filing date to april 2019 for a 2020 test year. the final decision also reduced the roe for sdg&amp;e from 10.30 percent to 10.20 percent and for socalgas from 10.10 percent to 10.05 percent, for the period from january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2019. sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' ratemaking capital structures will remain at current levels until modified, if at all, by a future cost of capital decision by the cpuc. in september 2017, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed advice letters to update their cost of capital for the actual cost of long-term debt through august 2017 and forecasted cost through 2018. sdg&amp;e and socalgas did not file for changes to preferred stock costs, because no issuances of preferred stock through 2018 are anticipated. in october 2017, the cpuc approved the embedded cost of debt presented in the filed advice letters, resulting in a revised return on rate base for sdg&amp;e from 7.79 percent to 7.55 percent and for socalgas from 8.02 percent to 7.34 percent, effective january 1, 2018. the automatic ccm will be in effect to adjust 2019 cost of capital, if necessary. unless changed by the operation of the ccm, the updated costs of long-term debt and the new roes will remain in effect through december 31, 2019. the cost of capital changes will also apply to capital expenditures in 2018 and 2019 for incremental projects not funded through the grc revenue requirement. we provide further detail regarding cost of capital in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. incentive mechanisms we describe cpuc incentive mechanisms in item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms incentive mechanisms. incentive awards are included in revenues when we receive required cpuc approval of the award, the timing of which may not be consistent from year to year. we would record penalties for results below the specified benchmarks against revenues when we believe it is probable that the cpuc would assess a penalty. 124 energy efficiency the cpuc has established incentive mechanisms that are based on the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. energy efficiency awards recorded in revenues (dollars in millions) sdg&amp;e socalgas award period (program years) 2017 (1) 2016 2015 2017 (1) 2016 2015 for second half of 2015 and first half of 2016 $ 3 $ $ $ 1 $ $ for second half of 2014 and first half of 2015 4 4 for second half of 2013 and first half of 2014 7 4 (1) 2017 awards reflect settlement reductions as approved by the cpuc, as discussed below. in march 2017, the cpuc approved the settlement agreements reached with the ora and turn regarding the incentive awards for program years 2006 through 2008, wherein the parties agreed that sdg&amp;e and socalgas would offset up to a total of approximately $4 million each against future incentive awards over a three-year period beginning in 2017. if the total incentive awards ultimately authorized for 2017 through 2019 are less than approximately $4 million for either utility, the applicable utility is released from paying any remaining unapplied amount. natural gas procurement the california utilities procure natural gas on behalf of their core natural gas customers. the cpuc has established incentive mechanisms to allow the california utilities the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for their core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. socalgas procures natural gas for sdg&amp;e's core natural gas customers' requirements. socalgas' gcim is applied on the combined portfolio basis. gcim awards recorded in revenues (dollars in millions) socalgas award period (program years) 2017 2016 2015 april 2015 - march 2016 $ 5 $ $ april 2014 - march 2015 7 april 2013 - march 2014 14 in january 2018, the cpuc approved socalgas' application for a gcim award of $4 million for natural gas procured for its core customers during the 12-month period ended march 31, 2017. operational incentives the cpuc may establish operational incentives and associated performance benchmarks as part of a grc or cost of service proceeding. in the 2016 grc fd, the cpuc did not establish any operational incentives for socalgas, but established an electric reliability incentive for sdg&amp;e. outcomes could vary from a maximum annual penalty of $8 million to a maximum annual award of $8 million. natural gas pipeline operations safety assessments in 2011, the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to implement the cpuc's directives to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines that do not have sufficient documentation of a pressure test and to address retrofitting pipelines to allow for in-line inspection tools and, where appropriate, automated or remote controlled shut-off valves (referred to as psep). in 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' analytical approach to implementing psep, as embodied in an approved decision tree, but did not pre-approve recovery of the costs of implementing psep, because initial cost estimates were too preliminary to form the basis for ratemaking. instead, the cpuc established a process to review the reasonableness of incurred psep costs after-the-fact to determine the amounts that may be recovered from ratepayers. as portions of psep have been completed, actual costs have generally been higher than the preliminary estimates, partially offset by changes in scope that have reduced costs. implementation costs incurred through 2017 are summarized in the table below. over time, as we have completed an increasing number of projects, socalgas and sdg&amp;e achieve greater cost estimate accuracy, as well as efficiencies in executing the project work. cost estimates for work performed in 2017 and forward reflect the development of more detailed estimates, actual cost experience as portions of the work are completed and additional refinement in scope. in addition, 125 implementation of new regulatory requirements or clarification of existing regulatory requirements in the future could materially impact the cost forecasts. in 2016, the cpuc issued a final decision authorizing socalgas and sdg&amp;e to recover in rates 50 percent of the balances recorded in psep regulatory accounts as of january 1 each year, subject to refund, pending reasonableness review. the decision also incorporates a forward-looking schedule to file reasonableness review applications in 2016 and 2018, file a forecast application for pre-approval of project costs incurred in 2017 and 2018, and to include psep costs not the subject of prior applications in future grcs. we expect this transition from an after-the-fact reasonableness review framework to pre-approval of psep implementation costs based on cost forecasts to improve the certainty of recovery for psep implementation costs. in september 2016, socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed a joint application with the cpuc for review of psep project costs completed through june 30, 2015. the total costs submitted for review are approximately $195 million ($180 million for socalgas and $15 million for sdg&amp;e). socalgas and sdg&amp;e expect a decision from the cpuc in 2018. although consumer advocacy groups oppose recovery of a portion of the costs submitted for review, we believe these costs were prudently incurred in accordance with cpuc regulatory requirements and should be substantially approved for recovery. in march 2017, socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting pre-approval of the forecasted revenue requirement associated with twelve psep projects, to be effective in rates on january 1, 2019. the california utilities expect to incur total costs for the twelve projects of approximately $255 million ($198 million in capital expenditures and $57 million in o&amp;m). socalgas and sdg&amp;e expect a cpuc decision in the second half of 2018. as shown in the table below, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have made significant pipeline safety investments under the psep program, and socalgas expects to continue making significant investments as approved through various regulatory proceedings. sdg&amp;e's psep program was substantially completed in 2017, with the exception of the pipeline safety &amp; reliability project that is currently under regulatory review. pipeline safety enhancement plan reasonableness review summary (dollars in millions) 2011 through 2017 total invested (1) cpuc review completed (2) cpuc review pending (3) 2018 and future applications (4)(5) sempra energy consolidated: capital $ 1,490 $ 8 $ 144 $ 1,338 operation and maintenance 176 25 63 88 total $ 1,666 $ 33 $ 207 $ 1,426 socalgas: capital $ 1,144 $ 8 $ 130 $ 1,006 operation and maintenance 167 25 62 80 total $ 1,311 $ 33 $ 192 $ 1,086 sdg&amp;e: capital $ 346 $ $ 14 $ 332 operation and maintenance 9 1 8 total $ 355 $ $ 15 $ 340 (1) excludes disallowed costs through december 31, 2017 of $7 million at socalgas and $4 million at sdg&amp;e for pressure testing or replacing pipelines installed between january 1, 1956 and july 1, 1961. (2) approved in december 2016; excludes $2 million of psep-specific insurance costs for which socalgas and sdg&amp;e are authorized to request recovery in a future filing. (3) reasonableness review application for completed projects totaling $195 million filed in september 2016. also includes approximately $11 million of pre-engineering costs incurred to support projects under development and submitted as part of the forecast application filed in march 2017. both decisions are expected in 2018. (4) authorized to recover in rates 50 percent of the balances recorded in the psep balancing accounts, subject to refund. (5) reasonableness review application to be filed in late 2018 and expected to include the majority of these costs. remaining costs not the subject of prior applications are to be included for review in subsequent grcs. 126 regulatory compliance and safety enforcement the california utilities are subject to various state and federal regulatory compliance requirements. at the state level, the cpuc has instituted gas and electric safety compliance programs that delegate citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising the citation authority, the cpuc staff will take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation and the degree of culpability. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense, with an administrative limit of $8 million per citation. in october 2016, the cpuc's cped issued a citation to socalgas for alleged violations of certain environmental mitigation measures related to the aliso canyon turbine replacement project, and imposed a fine in the amount of $699,500. socalgas subsequently appealed the citation and the resulting fine. i n march 2017, socalgas and the cped filed a joint settlement agreement with the cpuc to resolve all matters related to the october 2016 citation. as a part of the settlement agreement, socalgas agreed to pay $250,000 to the state's general fund and to retain an independent firm to conduct compliance training seminars for the benefit of socalgas and cpuc personnel at a cost not to exceed $25,000. the parties agreed that the settlement agreement did not constitute an admission by socalgas or denial by cped with respect to any issue of fact or law, or of any violation or liability by any party. in may 2017, the cpuc issued a decision approving the settlement as filed. sempra south american utilities our utilities in south america have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity, and their future performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, foreign currency rate fluctuations and economic conditions. they are also expected to provide earnings from construction projects when completed and from other investments, but will require substantial funding for these investments. capital project updates we summarize below the completion of a transmission line project in 2017 at a sempra south american utilities joint venture. capital project completed in 2017 sempra south american utilities project description chilquinta energ a - eletrans s.a. second of two, 220-kv transmission lines awarded in may 2012. completed in september 2017. 46-mile transmission line extending from ciruelos to pichirropulli. earns a return in u.s. dollars, indexed to the cpi, for 20 years and a regulated return thereafter. 50-percent equity interest in joint venture. we summarize below information regarding major projects in process at sempra south american utilities. chilquinta energ a's projects will be financed by the joint venture partners during construction, and other financing may be pursued upon project completion. luz del sur intends to finance its projects through its existing debt program in peru's capital markets. 127 capital projects under construction at december 31, 2017 sempra south american utilities project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status chilquinta energ a - eletrans ii s.a. two 220-kv transmission lines awarded in june 2013. $ 42 estimated completion: 2019 transmission lines to extend approximately 78 miles in total. once in operation, will earn a return in u.s. dollars, indexed to the cpi, for 20 years and a regulated return thereafter. 50-percent equity interest in joint venture. chilquinta energ a - eletrans iii s.a. 220-kv transmission line awarded in june 2017. $ 50 estimated completion: 2021 transmission line in the northern region of chile to extend approximately 133 miles. once in operation, will earn a return in u.s. dollars, indexed to the cpi, for 20 years and a regulated return thereafter. 50-percent equity interest in joint venture. luz del sur - lima substations and transmission lines (second investment) amended transmission investment plan includes development and operation of five substations and related transmission lines. $ 130 estimated completion: 2018 through 2020 as portions are completed once in operation, the capitalized cost of the projects will earn a regulated return for 30 years. completed two substations and related transmission lines in 2017. regulated rates the cne in chile and the osinergmin in peru set rates for our electric distribution utilities in south america, chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, respectively. for chilquinta energ a, distribution and transmission rates for four-year periods are reviewed separately, on an alternating basis, every two years. the most recent review process for distribution rates was completed in november 2016 and received final approval in august 2017. the authorized distribution rates are retroactive from november 2016 and will remain in effect through october 2020, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our results. chilquinta energ a's most recent review process for transmission rates was completed in september 2017, and final approval is expected in the first quarter of 2018. upon approval, the transmission rates will cover the period from january 2018 through december 2019, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our results. the components of tariffs for luz del sur are reviewed and adjusted every four years. the final distribution rate-setting resolution for the 2013-2017 period was published in october 2013 and went into effect on november 1, 2013. in december 2016, osinergmin issued a decree extending existing rates for luz del sur until november 2018. the next rate review is scheduled to be completed in 2018, covering the period from november 2018 to october 2022. we discuss the impact of tax reform in peru in results of operations changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes. luz del sur - potential impact from tolling customers luz del sur is an electric distribution utility that provides electric services, including the supply of electricity, to regulated and non-regulated customers. non-regulated customers consist of free and tolling customers. luz del sur supplies electricity to its customers from power purchased from generators under long-term, take-or-pay ppas. a free customer has the option of purchasing electricity directly from luz del sur, while paying fees to luz del sur for generation, transmission (primary and secondary) and distribution services, or choosing to become a tolling customer. a tolling customer purchases electricity from alternative suppliers and pays only a tolling fee to luz del sur for secondary transmission and distribution. to the extent customers choose to become tolling customers, luz del sur may be exposed to stranded costs related to capacity charges under its long-term, take-or-pay ppas. we discuss luz del sur's customers and demand in item 1. business. 128 sempra mexico capital projects updates the table below summarizes certain projects that were completed in 2017 at sempra mexico. capital projects completed 2017 sempra mexico project description sonora pipeline 500-mile pipeline network comprised of two segments that interconnect to the u.s. interstate pipeline system. first segment completed in stages from fourth quarter of 2014 through august 2015. pipeline to transport natural gas from the u.s.-mexico border south of tucson, arizona through the mexican state of sonora to the northern part of the mexican state of sinaloa along the gulf of california. second segment completed in may 2017. operations have been interrupted at the second segment of the pipeline, known as the guaymas-el oro segment, since august 23, 2017. ienova has declared a force majeure event. (1) capacity is fully contracted by the cfe under two 25-year contracts denominated in u.s. dollars. ojinaga pipeline 137-mile pipeline extending from ojinaga to el encino. pipeline completed in june 2017. natural gas transportation services agreement with the cfe for a 25-year term, denominated in u.s. dollars, for 100 percent of the transport capacity, equal to 1.4 bcf per day. san isidro pipeline 14-mile pipeline, a 46,000-horsepower compressor station and a distribution head, serving as an interconnection point to other pipeline systems located in chihuahua. pipeline completed in march 2017. compressor station completed in june 2017. natural gas transportation services agreement with the cfe for a 25-year term, denominated in u.s. dollars, for 100 percent of the transport capacity, equal to 1.1 bcf per day. (1) see discussion in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 129 we summarize major projects in process at sempra mexico below. capital projects at december 31, 2017 sempra mexico project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status sur de texas-tuxpan marine pipeline img was awarded the right to build, own and operate the natural gas marine pipeline in june 2016 by the cfe. $ 840 estimated completion: second half of 2018 sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in img, a joint venture with transcanada, which owns the remaining 60-percent interest. natural gas transportation services agreement for a 25-year term, denominated in u.s. dollars. la rumorosa solar complex awarded 41-mw photovoltaic solar energy project located in baja california, mexico, in an auction conducted by mexico's national center of electricity control (centro nacional de control de energ a) in september 2016. $ 50 estimated completion: first half of 2019 contracted by the cfe under a 15-year renewable energy agreement and a 20-year clean energy certificate agreement, denominated in u.s. dollars. tepezal ii solar complex awarded 100-mw photovoltaic solar energy project located in aguascalientes, mexico, in an auction conducted by mexico's national center of electricity control in september 2016. $ 90 estimated completion: first half of 2019 contracted by the cfe under 15-year renewable energy and capacity agreements and a 20-year clean energy certificate agreement, denominated in u.s. dollars. developing and constructing in collaboration with trina solar, which owns a 10-percent interest in the project. ienova has the option to purchase, and trina solar has the option to sell, trina solar's ownership interest at the end of the construction period, before operations commence. pima solar awarded 110-mw photovoltaic project located in sonora, mexico in march 2017. $ 115 estimated completion: fourth quarter of 2018 entered into a 20-year, u.s. dollar-denominated ppa in march 2017 to provide renewable energy, clean energy certificates and capacity. liquid fuels terminals at port of veracruz, puebla and mexico city awarded a 20-year concession in july 2017 to build and operate a marine terminal in the port of veracruz in mexico for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. $ 155 includes marine concession fees totaling $55 million for concession rights: half paid in august 2017 and half paid in january 2018. capacity of 1.4 million barrels of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel to supply the central region of mexico. expected completion of marine terminal: end of 2018 ienova will also build and operate two storage terminals located near puebla and mexico city with storage capacities of 500,000 and 800,000 barrels, respectively. $ 120 expected completion of two inland storage terminals: first half of 2019 entered into three, long-term, u.s. dollar-denominated terminal services agreements in july 2017 with valero energy for the full capacity of the marine terminal and the two inland storage terminals. pursuant to these agreements, valero energy has the option to purchase a 50-percent interest in each of the three terminals after commencement of commercial operations, subject to approval by the port of veracruz, cofece, the cre and other regulatory bodies. energ a sierra ju rez 2 108-mw wind power generation facility, located in la rumorosa, $ 150 expected completion: fourth quarter of 2020 baja california. pending ferc approval entered into a 20-year, u.s. dollar-denominated ppa with sdg&amp;e in november 2017. received cpuc approval in december 2017. 130 energ a costa azul lng terminal in may 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream, ienova, and a subsidiary of pemex entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing regasification terminal at eca. the agreement specifies how the parties share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering and commercial activities associated with exploring the development of the liquefaction project. pemex's cost-sharing obligations under the agreement ended on december 31, 2017. eca has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the regasification facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial financially than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. eca has obtained the primary mexican governmental authorizations for the proposed natural gas liquefaction project, including the environmental impact assessment from the national agency for safety, energy and environment of mexico, the social impact assessment from the mexican secretary of energy (secretar a de energ a) and the liquefaction and power self-generation permits from the cre. the development of this project is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, lng sales agreements, gas supply agreements and construction contracts; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. for a discussion of these risks, see item 1a. risk factors. ienova pipelines and den on september 26, 2016, ienova completed the acquisition of pemex's 50-percent interest in gdc (now known as ienova pipelines), increasing ienova's ownership interest in ienova pipelines to 100 percent, at which point ienova pipelines became a consolidated subsidiary of ienova. on november 15, 2017, ienova completed the acquisition of pemex's 50-percent interest in den, increasing ienova pipelines' ownership interest in den and tag to 100 percent and 50 percent, respectively, at which point den became a consolidated subsidiary of ienova. den continues to account for its indirect interest in tag as an equity method investment. we discuss these acquisitions further in notes 3 and 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. termoel ctrica de mexicali our tdm power plant is currently held for sale, as we discuss in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other sempra mexico matters at december 31, 2017, pemex's long-term rating with moody's was baa3 with a negative outlook. pemex's foreign currency long-term s&amp;p rating was bbb+ and its outlook was stable. s&amp;p's local currency long-term sovereign credit rating was a- with a stable outlook. fitch rating's long-term issuer default rating and local currency long-term issuer default ratings were bbb+. although pemex is a state productive enterprise of mexico, its financing obligations are not guaranteed by the mexican government. as a customer with capacity contracts for transportation services on sempra mexico's ethane and lpg pipelines, if pemex were unable to meet any or all of its obligations to sempra mexico, it could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sempra mexico continues to monitor cfe project opportunities and carefully analyze cfe bids in order to participate in those that fit its overall growth strategy. there can be no assurance that ienova will be successful in bidding for new cfe projects. the ability to successfully complete major construction projects is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. for a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see item 1a. risk factors. sempra renewables sempra renewables' performance is primarily a function of the solar and wind power generated by its assets. power generation from these assets depends on solar and wind resource levels, weather conditions, and sempra renewables' ability to maintain equipment performance. sempra renewables' future performance and the demand for renewable energy is impacted by various market factors, most notably state mandated requirements for utilities to deliver a portion of total energy load from renewable energy sources. additionally, the phase out or extension of u.s. federal income tax incentives, primarily itcs and ptcs, and grant programs 131 could significantly impact future renewable energy resource availability and investment decisions. imposition by the u.s. government of ad valorem tariffs, import quotas or other import restrictions related to solar panels could materially adversely affect sempra renewables' business, investment decisions and the demand for renewable energy in the u.s. capital project updates we summarize below a new solar project at sempra renewables. capital project under construction at december 31, 2017 sempra renewables project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status great valley solar project capable of producing up to 200 mw of solar power once fully constructed, located in fresno county, california, acquired in july 2017. $ 375 commercial operation dates and corresponding contracted energy sales to commence in four phases. three phases commenced in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the final phase is expected to commence in the first half of 2018. to $ 425 fully contracted under four ppas with an average contract term of 18 years. sempra lng &amp; midstream capital project updates we summarize below sempra lng &amp; midstream's completion of the cameron interstate pipeline expansion project. capital project completed in 2017 sempra lng &amp; midstream project description cameron interstate pipeline expansion 3.5-mile, 36-inch pipeline addition to existing cameron interstate pipeline, adding bi-directional flow of up to 1.5 bcf of natural gas per day. expansion project completed in the second quarter of 2017. includes construction of a compressor station and construction of and modifications to meter stations. authorized by ferc in june 2014 and approved to commence service in april 2017. we summarize below updates regarding the cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction joint venture project at sempra lng &amp; midstream. major project under construction at december 31, 2017 sempra lng &amp; midstream project description status cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project sempra energy contributed cameron lng, llc's existing facilities to cameron lng jv, of which sempra energy indirectly owns 50.2 percent, and construction began in the second half of 2014. based on a number of factors discussed below, we believe it is reasonable to expect that all three lng trains will be producing lng in 2019. estimated cost of approximately $10 billion at the time of our final investment decision by cameron lng jv. capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capacity of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. authorized to export the full capacity of lng to both fta and non-fta countries. 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements for full nameplate capacity. 132 cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project construction on the current three-train liquefaction project began in the second half of 2014 under an epc contract with a joint venture between cb&amp;i, llc (as assignee of cb&amp;i shaw constructors, inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v., and chiyoda international corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of chiyoda corporation. the total cost of the integrated cameron lng jv facility, including the cost of the original facility that was contributed to the joint venture interest during construction, financing costs and required reserves, was estimated to be approximately $10 billion at the time of our final investment decision. sempra lng &amp; midstream has agreements totaling 1.45 bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation service to the cameron lng jv facilities on the cameron interstate pipeline with engie s.a. and affiliates of mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd. the terms of these agreements are concurrent with the liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements. sempra energy and the project partners executed project financing documents for senior secured debt in an aggregate principal amount up to $7.4 billion for the purpose of financing the cost of development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project. sempra energy has entered into guarantees under which it has severally guaranteed 50.2 percent of cameron lng jv's obligations under the project financing and financing-related agreements, for a maximum amount of up to $3.9 billion. the project financing and completion guarantees became effective on october 1, 2014, and the guarantees will terminate upon financial completion of the project, which will occur upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we expect the project to achieve financial completion and the completion guarantees to be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. in october 2016, the epc contractor indicated that the cameron lng project would not achieve its originally scheduled dates for completion and subsequently provided project schedules reflecting further delays to the cameron lng project. during the course of construction of large projects like cameron lng, contractors often assert that they are owed additional compensation, schedule extensions, or both. cameron lng jv received information from the epc contractor claiming it was owed additional amounts beyond the contract value and entitled to schedule extensions, including as a result of the impacts of hurricane harvey and other events impacting the project. in december 2017, cameron lng jv entered into a settlement agreement with the epc contractor that settled claims by the epc contractor that it was owed additional compensation beyond the original contract price and that it was entitled to schedule extensions under the epc contract. the settlement agreement resolves all of the epc contractor's known and unknown claims prior to december 17, 2017 and became effective in january 2018. under the settlement agreement, cameron lng jv has agreed to additional contract and bonus payments. these payments are subject to the epc contractor's achievement of certain milestones, including milestones aligned to the completion of commissioning the lng trains. in addition, the bonus payments become payable only if the epc contractor satisfies certain additional milestones. the settlement agreement waives schedule-related liquidated damages related to the original contract schedule and reestablishes the start dates for such liquidated damages according to the settlement schedule. based on a number of factors, we continue to believe it is reasonable to expect that all three lng trains at the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility will be producing lng and start generating earnings in 2019. these factors include, among others, the terms of the settlement agreement, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules, the epc contractor's progress to date, the remaining work to be performed, and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. for a discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. these delays in the project and the terms of the settlement agreement increase the total estimated cost of the integrated cameron lng facility above the approximately $10 billion estimated cost; however, the estimated increase is expected to be within the project contingency established by the cameron lng jv at the time of the final investment decision for the project in august 2014 and is not material to sempra energy. 133 proposed additional cameron liquefaction expansion cameron lng jv has received the major permits and fta and non-fta approvals necessary to expand the current configuration of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project from the current three liquefaction trains under construction. the proposed expansion project includes up to two additional liquefaction trains, capable of increasing lng production capacity by approximately 9 mtpa to 10 mtpa, and up to two additional full containment lng storage tanks (one of which was permitted with the original three-train project). under the cameron lng jv financing agreements, expansion of the cameron lng jv facilities beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. one of the partners indicated to sempra energy and the other partners that it does not intend to invest additional capital in cameron lng jv with respect to the expansion. as a result, discussions among the partners are taking place, and we are considering a variety of options to attempt to move this project forward. these activities have contributed to delays in developing firm pricing information and securing customer commitments, and there can be no assurance that these issues will be resolved in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely impact the near-term marketing of this expansion project and cameron lng jv's ability to secure customer commitments. in light of these developments, we are unable to predict when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on this expansion project. the expansion of the cameron lng jv facilities beyond the first three trains is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including amending the cameron lng jv agreement among the partners, obtaining customer commitments, completing the required commercial agreements, securing and maintaining all necessary permits, approvals and consents, obtaining financing, reaching a final investment decision among the cameron lng jv partners, and other factors associated with the potential investment. see item 1a. risk factors. other lng liquefaction development design, regulatory and commercial activities are ongoing for potential lng liquefaction developments at our port arthur, texas site and at sempra mexico's eca facility. for these development projects, we have met with potential customers and determined there is an interest in long-term contracts for lng supplies beginning in the 2022 to 2025 time frame. port arthur in november 2016, sempra lng &amp; midstream submitted a request to the ferc seeking authorization to site, construct and operate the proposed port arthur lng natural gas liquefaction and export facility in port arthur, texas. the proposed project is designed to include two natural gas liquefaction trains with production capability of approximately 13.5 mtpa, or 698 bcf per year; three lng storage tanks; natural gas liquids and refrigerant storage; feed gas pre-treatment facilities; and two berths and associated marine and loading facilities. in june 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream filed permit applications with the doe for authorization to export the lng produced from the proposed project to all current and future non-fta countries. in august 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream received authorization from the doe to export the lng produced from the proposed project to all current and future fta countries. in june 2017, sempra lng &amp; midstream, woodside petroleum ltd. and korea gas corporation signed a memorandum of understanding that provides a framework for cooperation and joint discussion by the parties regarding key aspects of the potential development of the port arthur lng project, including engineering and construction work, o&amp;m activities, feed gas sourcing, offtake of lng and the potential for korea gas corporation to purchase lng from, and become an equity participant in, the port arthur lng project. the memorandum of understanding does not commit any party to buy or sell lng or otherwise participate in the port arthur liquefaction lng project. in february 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream and woodside petroleum ltd. entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed port arthur lng liquefaction project. the agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the port arthur lng liquefaction project. also, in november 2016, sempra lng &amp; midstream filed a permit application with the ferc for the texas connector pipeline project that will provide natural gas transportation service for the port arthur lng liquefaction project. in february 2017, sempra 134 lng &amp; midstream initiated the ferc pre-filing review process for the louisiana connector pipeline project, an additional pipeline project that would also provide natural gas transportation service for the port arthur lng liquefaction project. the ferc application was filed in october 2017. development of the port arthur lng liquefaction project is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including obtaining customer commitments, completing the required commercial agreements, such as joint venture agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply agreements; completing construction contracts; securing all necessary permits and approvals; obtaining financing and incentives; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with the potential investment. see item 1a. risk factors. energ a costa azul we further discuss sempra lng &amp; midstream's participation in potential lng liquefaction development at sempra mexico's eca facility above in sempra mexico energ a costa azul lng terminal. natural gas storage assets the future performance of our natural gas storage assets could be impacted by ongoing changes in the u.s. natural gas market, which could lead to sustained diminished natural gas storage values. the recorded value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at december 31, 2017 is $1.5 billion. historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. in general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. as our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our bay gas and mississippi hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. future investment in bay gas, mississippi hub and la storage will be dependent on market demand and estimates of long-term storage values. our la storage development project construction permit expired in june 2017 and future development will require approval of a new construction permit by the ferc. the la storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the la storage pipeline, that is not currently contracted. we perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values when market conditions indicate that such values may not be recoverable. in the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their carrying value. to the extent the carrying value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. a significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. rbs sempra commodities in three separate transactions in 2010 and one in early 2011, we and rbs, our partner in the rbs sempra commodities joint venture, sold substantially all of the businesses and assets of our commodities-marketing partnership. the investment balance of $67 million at december 31, 2017 reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the partnership as it is dissolved. the amount of distributions, if any, may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to rbs sempra commodities in other litigation in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in addition, amounts may be retained by the partnership for an extended period of time to help offset unanticipated future general and administrative costs necessary to complete the dissolution of the partnership. other sempra energy matters we may be further impacted by rapidly changing economic conditions. these conditions may also affect our counterparties. moreover, the dollar may fluctuate significantly compared to some foreign currencies, especially in mexico and south america where we have significant operations. we discuss these matters in impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations above and in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively affect profitability at sempra lng &amp; midstream. also, a reduction in projected global demand for lng could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. for a discussion of these risks and other risks involving changing commodity prices, see item 1a. risk factors. 135 litigation we describe legal proceedings that could adversely affect our future performance in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. critical accounting policies and estimates management views certain accounting policies as critical because their application is the most relevant, judgmental, and/or material to our financial position and results of operations, and/or because they require the use of material judgments and estimates. we describe our significant accounting policies in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss choices among alternative accounting policies that are material to our financial statements and information concerning significant estimates with the audit committee of the sempra energy board of directors. critical accounting policies and estimates sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas contingencies assumptions &amp; approach used we accrue losses for the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. for loss contingencies, we accrue the loss if an event has occurred on or before the balance sheet date and: information available through the date we file our financial statements indicates it is probable that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of uncertain future events, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. we do not accrue contingencies that might result in gains. we continuously assess contingencies for litigation claims, environmental remediation and other events. effect if different assumptions used details of our issues in this area are discussed in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. regulatory accounting assumptions &amp; approach used as regulated entities, the california utilities' rates, as set and monitored by regulators, are designed to recover the cost of providing service and provide the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on their investments. the california utilities record regulatory assets, which are generally costs that would otherwise be charged to expense, if it is probable that, through the ratemaking process, the utility will recover that asset from customers in future rates. similarly, regulatory liabilities are recorded for amounts recovered in rates in advance or in excess of costs incurred. the california utilities assess probabilities of future rate recovery associated with regulatory account balances at the end of each reporting period and whenever new and/or unusual events occur, such as: changes in the regulatory and political environment or the utility's competitive position issuance of a regulatory commission order passage of new legislation to the extent that circumstances associated with regulatory balances change, the regulatory balances are evaluated and adjusted if appropriate. effect if different assumptions used adverse legislative or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of our regulatory assets and liabilities and could materially adversely impact our financial statements. details of the california utilities' regulatory assets and liabilities and additional factors that management considers when assessing probabilities associated with regulatory balances are discussed in notes 1, 13, 14 and 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 136 sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas (continued) income taxes assumptions &amp; approach used our income tax expense and related balance sheet amounts involve significant management judgments and estimates. as to the application of the recently enacted tcja, these estimates are based on our application of currently available guidance and interpretations of the tcja to our facts, which guidance and interpretation may change. interpretive guidance issued by the sec upon enactment of the tcja permits adjustments in subsequent periods through 2018 to provisional amounts recorded in 2017 related to the tcja. amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as current and noncurrent accruals, involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income and deductions by taxing authorities. when we evaluate the anticipated resolution of income tax issues, we consider past resolutions of the same or similar issue the status of any income tax examination in progress positions taken by taxing authorities with other taxpayers with similar issues the likelihood of deferred tax recovery is based on analyses of the deferred tax assets and our expectation of future taxable income, based on our strategic planning. effect if different assumptions used actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts because of: future impacts of various items, including changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations and rulings our financial condition in future periods the resolution of various income tax issues between us and taxing and regulatory authorities we discuss details of our issues in this area in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. assumptions &amp; approach used for an uncertain position to qualify for benefit recognition, the position must have at least a more likely than not chance of being sustained (based on the position's technical merits) upon challenge by the respective authorities. the term more likely than not means a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if we do not have a more likely than not position with respect to a tax position, then we do not recognize any of the potential tax benefit associated with the position. a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon the effective resolution of the tax position. effect if different assumptions used unrecognized tax benefits involve management's judgment regarding the likelihood of the benefit being sustained. the final resolution of uncertain tax positions could result in adjustments to recorded amounts and may affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we discuss additional information related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. derivatives assumptions &amp; approach used we record derivative instruments for which we do not apply a scope exception at fair value on the balance sheet. depending on the purpose for the contract and the applicability of hedge accounting, the changes in fair value of derivatives may be offset in earnings, on the balance sheet, or in oci. we use the normal purchase or sale exception for certain derivative contracts. whenever possible, we use exchange quoted prices or other third-party pricing to estimate fair values; if no such data is available, we use internally developed models and other techniques. the assumed collectability of derivative assets and receivables considers events specific to a given counterparty the tenor of the transaction the credit-worthiness of the counterparty effect if different assumptions used the application of hedge accounting to certain derivatives and the normal purchase or sale accounting election are made on a contract-by-contract basis. using hedge accounting or the normal purchase or sale election in a different manner could materially impact sempra energy's results of operations. however, such alternatives would not have a significant impact on the california utilities' results of operations because regulatory accounting principles generally apply to their contracts. we provide details of our derivative instruments and our fair value approaches in notes 9 and 10, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 137 sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas (continued) defined benefit plans assumptions &amp; approach used to measure our pension and other postretirement obligations, costs and liabilities, we rely on several assumptions. we consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these assumptions. we review these assumptions annually and update when appropriate. the critical assumptions used to develop the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates expected return on plan assets health care cost trend rates mortality rates rate of compensation increases termination and retirement rates utilization of postretirement welfare benefits payout elections (lump sum or annuity) lump sum interest rates effect if different assumptions used the actuarial assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to: return on plan assets changing market and economic conditions higher or lower withdrawal rates longer or shorter participant life spans more or fewer lump sum versus annuity payout elections made by plan participants retirement rates these differences, other than those related to the california utilities' plans, where rate recovery offsets the effects of the assumptions on earnings, may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit expense we record. for plans other than those at the california utilities, the approximate annual effect on earnings of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed discount rate would be less than $2 million and the effect of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would be less than $2 million. we provide additional information, including the impact of increases and decreases in the health care cost trend rate, in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy and sdg&amp;e asset retirement obligations assumptions &amp; approach used sdg&amp;e's legal aros related to the decommissioning of songs are estimated based on a site specific study performed no less than every three years. the estimate of the obligations includes estimated decommissioning costs, including labor, equipment, material and other disposal costs inflation adjustment applied to estimated cash flows discount rate based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate actual decommissioning costs, progress to date and expected duration of decommissioning activities effect if different assumptions used changes in the estimated decommissioning costs, or in the assumptions and judgments made by management underlying these estimates, could cause revisions to the estimated total cost associated with retiring the assets. sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning expenses are subject to rate recovery and, therefore, rate-making accounting treatment is applied to sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning activities. sdg&amp;e recognizes a regulatory asset, or liability, to the extent that its songs aro exceeds, or is less than, the amount collected from customers and the amount earned in sdg&amp;e's ndt. we provide additional detail in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy impairment testing of long-lived assets, including intangible assets 138 assumptions &amp; approach used whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable, we consider if the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets. if so, we estimate the fair value of these assets to determine the extent to which carrying value exceeds fair value. for these estimates, we may consider data from multiple valuation methods, including data from market participants. we exercise judgment to estimate the future cash flows and the useful lives of long-lived assets and to determine our intent to use the assets. our intent to use or dispose of assets is subject to re-evaluation and can change over time. effect if different assumptions used if an impairment test is required, the fair value of long-lived assets can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. we discuss impairment of long-lived assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impairment testing of goodwill assumptions &amp; approach used on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, we consider whether goodwill may be impaired. for our annual goodwill impairment testing, we have the option to first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test. if we elect to perform the qualitative assessment, we evaluate relevant events and circumstances, including but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, changes in key personnel and the overall financial performance of the reporting unit. if, after assessing these qualitative factors, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. when we perform the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test, we exercise judgment to develop estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit and compare that to the carrying value. our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. we consider observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, if available, as well as an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future revenues and expenses and may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the reporting unit. critical assumptions that affect our estimates of fair value may include consideration of market transactions future cash flows the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate country risk entity risk effect if different assumptions used when we choose to make a qualitative assessment as discussed above, the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test is not required if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or when we choose to proceed directly to the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test, the test requires us to first determine if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and if so, to measure the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. when determining if goodwill is impaired, the fair value of the reporting unit and goodwill can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. as a result, recognizing a goodwill impairment may or may not be required. we determined that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair values of the reporting units in south america to which goodwill was allocated exceeded their carrying values based on our qualitative assessment, and that the estimated fair values of the reporting units in mexico to which goodwill was allocated exceeded their carrying values based on our quantitative assessment, as of october 1, 2017, our most recent goodwill impairment testing date. we discuss goodwill in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy (continued) carrying value of equity method investments 139 assumptions &amp; approach used we generally account for investments under the equity method when we have significant influence over, but do not have control of, the investee. we consider whether the fair value of each equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. to help evaluate whether a decline in fair value below carrying value has occurred and if the decline is other than temporary, we may develop fair value estimates for the investment. our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. in the absence of observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, we consider an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis or, with less weighting, the replacement cost of the underlying net assets. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future distributions from the investment, or may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the entity and adjusted for our ownership share total. when calculating estimates of fair or realizable values, we also consider whether we intend to hold or sell the investment. for certain investments, critical assumptions may include equity sale offer price for the investment transportation rates for natural gas the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate the availability and costs of natural gas and liquefied natural gas competing fuels (primarily propane) and electricity estimated future power generation and associated tax credits renewable power price expectations effect if different assumptions used the risk assumptions applied by other market participants to value the investments could vary significantly or the appropriate approaches could be weighted differently. these differences could impact whether or not the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value, and if so, whether that condition is other than temporary. this could result in an impairment charge or a different amount of impairment charge, and, in cases where an impairment charge has been recorded, additional loss or gain upon sale in the case of a sale transaction. we provide additional details in notes 4 and 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards we discuss the relevant pronouncements that have recently become effective and have had or may have a significant effect on our financial statements in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of erosion of our cash flows, earnings, asset values and equity due to adverse changes in market prices, and interest and foreign currency rates. risk policies sempra energy has policies governing its market risk management and trading activities. sempra energy and the california utilities maintain separate and independent risk management committees, organizations and processes for the california utilities and for all non-cpuc regulated affiliates to provide oversight of these activities. the committees consist of senior officers who establish policy, oversee energy risk management activities, and monitor the results of trading and other activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management and trading policies. these activities include, but are not limited to, daily monitoring of market positions that create credit, liquidity and market risk. the respective oversight organizations and committees are independent from the energy procurement departments. along with other tools, we use var and liquidity metrics to measure our exposure to market risk associated with the commodity portfolios. var is an estimate of the potential loss on a position or portfolio of positions over a specified holding period, based on normal market conditions and within a given statistical confidence interval. a liquidity metric is intended to monitor the amount of financial resources needed for meeting potential margin calls as forward market prices move. var and liquidity risk metrics are calculated independently by the respective risk management oversight organizations. the california utilities use power and natural gas derivatives to manage natural gas and electric price risk associated with servicing load requirements. the use of power and natural gas derivatives is subject to certain limitations imposed by company policy and is in compliance with risk management and trading activity plans that have been filed with and approved by the cpuc. 140 we discuss revenue recognition in note 1 and the additional market-risk information regarding derivative instruments in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have exposure to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates and exposure to counterparty nonperformance. the following discussion of these primary market-risk exposures as of december 31, 2017 includes a discussion of how these exposures are managed. commodity price risk market risk related to physical commodities is created by volatility in the prices and basis of certain commodities. our various subsidiaries are exposed, in varying degrees, to price risk, primarily to prices in the natural gas and electricity markets. our policy is to manage this risk within a framework that considers the unique markets and operating and regulatory environments of each subsidiary. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream are generally exposed to commodity price risk indirectly through their lng, natural gas pipeline and storage, and power generating assets and their ppas. these segments may utilize commodity transactions in the course of optimizing these assets. these transactions are typically priced based on market indices, but may also include fixed price purchases and sales of commodities. any residual exposure is monitored as described above. a hypothetical 10-percent unfavorable change in commodity prices would not have resulted in a material change in the fair value of our commodity-based financial derivatives for these segments at december 31, 2017 and 2016. the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled. also, the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments does not typically include the generally offsetting impact of our underlying asset positions. the california utilities' market-risk exposure is limited due to cpuc-authorized rate recovery of the costs of commodity purchases, interstate and intrastate transportation, and storage activity. however, socalgas may, at times, be exposed to market risk as a result of incentive mechanisms that reward or penalize the utility for commodity costs below or above certain benchmarks for socalgas' gcim. if commodity prices were to rise too rapidly, it is likely that volumes would decline. this decline would increase the per-unit fixed costs, which could lead to further volume declines. the california utilities manage their risk within the parameters of their market risk management framework. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2017, the total var of the california utilities' natural gas and electric positions was not material, and the procurement activities were in compliance with the procurement plans filed with and approved by the cpuc. interest rate risk we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates primarily as a result of our having issued short- and long-term debt. subject to regulatory constraints, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to interest rate changes and to lower our overall cost of borrowing. the table below shows the nominal amount of long-term debt: nominal amount of long-term debt (1) (dollars in millions) december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas california utilities fixed-rate $ 7,582 $ 4,573 $ 3,009 $ 7,218 $ 4,209 $ 3,009 california utilities variable-rate 295 295 445 445 other fixed-rate 7,735 6,703 other variable-rate 1,539 719 (1) before the effects of acquisition-related fair value adjustments, interest rate swaps, reductions/increases for unamortized discount/premium and reduction for debt issuance costs, and excluding capital lease obligations and build-to-suit lease. interest rate risk sensitivity analysis measures interest rate risk by calculating the estimated changes in earnings that would result from a hypothetical change in market interest rates. if interest rates increased or decreased 10 percent on all of sempra energy's effective variable-rate, long-term debt at december 31, 2017, the change in earnings over the next 12-month period ended 141 december 31, 2018 would be $1 million. these hypothetical changes in earnings are based on our long-term debt position after the effect of interest rate swaps. we provide further information about interest rate swap transactions in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we also are subject to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the assets of our pension plans, other postretirement benefit plans, and sdg&amp;e's ndt. however, we expect the effects of these fluctuations, as they relate to the california utilities, to be recovered in future rates. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss that would be incurred as a result of nonperformance of our counterparties' contractual obligations. we monitor credit risk through a credit-approval process and the assignment and monitoring of credit limits. we establish these credit limits based on risk and return considerations under terms customarily available in the industry. as with market risk, we have policies governing the management of credit risk that are administered by the respective credit departments for each of the california utilities and, on a combined basis, for all non-cpuc regulated affiliates and overseen by their separate risk management committees. this oversight includes calculating current and potential credit risk on a daily basis and monitoring actual balances in comparison to approved limits. we avoid concentration of counterparties whenever possible, and we believe our credit policies significantly reduce overall credit risk. these policies include an evaluation of: prospective counterparties' financial condition (including credit ratings) collateral requirements the use of standardized agreements that allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty downgrade triggers we believe that we have provided adequate reserves for counterparty nonperformance. when its development projects become operational, sempra infrastructure relies significantly on the ability of suppliers to perform under long-term agreements and on our ability to enforce contract terms in the event of nonperformance. also, the factors that we consider in evaluating a development project include negotiating customer and supplier agreements and, therefore, we rely on these agreements for future performance. we also may condition our decision to go forward on development projects on first obtaining these customer and supplier agreements. as noted above in interest rate risk, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate exposure to interest rate changes and to lower the overall cost of borrowing. we would be exposed to interest rate fluctuations on the underlying debt should a counterparty to the swap fail to perform. credit ratings the credit ratings of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas remained at investment grade levels in 2017. at december 31, 2017, sempra energy's issuer rating with moody's was baa1 with a negative outlook, sdg&amp;e's issuer rating a1 with a stable outlook and socalgas' long-term rating a1 with a stable outlook. sempra energy's corporate credit rating with s&amp;p was bbb+ with a stable outlook, and sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' corporate credit ratings were a with stable outlooks. fitch ratings' long-term issuer default rating was bbb+ with a stable outlook for sempra energy, and a with stable outlooks for sdg&amp;e and socalgas. on october 5 and 9, 2017, fitch ratings and s&amp;p, respectively, affirmed sempra energy's long-term issuer credit rating following our announcement to acquire 100 percent of efh with the currently contemplated financing structure. on december 20, 2017, moody's placed sempra energy's credit ratings on negative outlook. moody's indicated that this action was triggered by our having entered into the comprehensive stipulation with the staff of the puct and other key stakeholders, which moody's described as a significant milestone in our attaining regulatory approval for the merger. in addition, moody's indicated that a downgrade of sempra energy's credit ratings over the 12 to 18 months after december 20, 2017 is likely if they anticipate that sempra energy's consolidated credit metrics will remain weak, relative to sempra energy's current credit rating, beyond 2019, specifically if our consolidated ratio of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital to debt remains below 18 percent (assuming successful completion of the merger) for an extended period of time. also, unrelated to the merger, the tcja could have an adverse impact on our credit ratings. moody's also indicated that a downgrade could also be considered if there is a 142 further delay in the completion of the cameron lng project. we provide additional discussion regarding the merger and financing risks in notes 3 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors. moody's also issued a public comment on december 20, 2017 regarding recent wildfires in northern california and ventura county, california and how the application of the doctrine of inverse condemnation under california law (which is a form of strict liability) may expose california ious, like sdg&amp;e, to substantial liabilities if they are unable to recover costs from wildfires even when they have acted prudently. while moody's has not changed its assessment regarding california's supportive regulatory environment, it did determine that the december 6, 2017 decision issued by the cpuc denying sdg&amp;e's request to recover approximately $379 million of pretax costs associated with the 2007 wildfires (based on the cpuc's finding that sdg&amp;e did not reasonably operate the facilities involved in the wildfires) is credit negative for sdg&amp;e, for sempra energy, and for other california utilities seeking to recover costs from wildfires. moody's further indicated that it may reassess its view of the california regulatory framework if it determines that the credit supportiveness of california's regulatory environment has weakened (including as a result of the cpuc's discretion in denying recovery of wildfire costs), which would also be credit negative and could lead to a downgrade of the credit ratings of california ious, including sdg&amp;e, or those ratings being placed on negative outlook. in addition and unrelated to the merger, on september 21, 2017, s&amp;p revised its debt ratings criteria, reflecting subordination risk in corporate issue ratings, and as a result of this new methodology, has indicated that it could downgrade its rating of sempra energy's senior unsecured debt securities within the 12 months following its october 9, 2017 announcement if we do not complete the merger under the financing plan currently contemplated or if the aggregate indebtedness of sempra energy's subsidiaries continues to exceed 50 percent of sempra energy's total consolidated debt. any such downgrade or those ratings being placed on negative outlook may make it more difficult or costly for sempra energy to issue debt securities. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas have committed lines of credit to provide liquidity and to support commercial paper. borrowings under these facilities bear interest at benchmark rates plus a margin that varies with market index rates and each borrower's credit rating. each facility also requires a commitment fee on available unused credit that may be impacted by each borrower's credit rating. under these committed lines, if sempra energy were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 to 50 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 to 10 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. under these committed lines, if sdg&amp;e or socalgas were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 to 25 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 to 5 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. for sempra energy and sdg&amp;e, their credit ratings also may affect their respective credit limits related to derivative instruments, as we discuss in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. foreign currency and inflation rate risk we discuss our foreign currency and inflation exposure in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations. the hypothetical effect for every 10 percent appreciation in the u.s. dollar against the currencies of mexico, chile and peru in which we have operations and investments are as follows: hypothetical effects from 10 percent strengthening of u.s. dollar (dollars in millions) hypothetical effects translation of 2017 earnings to u.s. dollars (1) $ (20 ) transactional exposure, before the effects of foreign currency derivatives (2) 87 translation of net assets of foreign subsidiaries and investment in foreign entities (3) (181 ) (1) amount represents the impact to earnings, primarily at our south american businesses, for a change in the average exchange rate throughout the reporting period. (2) amount primarily represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2017 on monetary assets and liabilities and translation of non-u.s. deferred income tax balances at our mexican subsidiaries. (3) amount represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2017 recorded to oci at the end of each reporting period, primarily at our south american businesses. 143 monetary assets and liabilities at our mexican subsidiaries that are denominated in u.s. dollars may fluctuate significantly throughout the year. these monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. based on a net monetary liability position of $3.1 billion, including those related to our investments in joint ventures, at december 31, 2017, the hypothetical effect of a 10 percent increase in the mexican inflation rate is approximately $56 million lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense for our consolidated subsidiaries, as well as lower equity earnings for our joint ventures.risk factors 36 risk factors. sempra texas utility sempra texas utility is comprised of our equity method investment in oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018. we discuss the acquisition in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. oncor holdings is a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of sempra texas intermediate holding company llc and owns an 80.25 -percent interest in oncor. tti owns the remaining 19.75 -percent interest in oncor. oncor is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the state of delaware. certain ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments, which we describe in item 1a. risk factors, remain in effect following the merger and are intended to enhance oncor holdings' and oncor's separateness from their owners and to mitigate the risk that these entities would be negatively impacted by the bankruptcy of, or other adverse financial developments affecting, their owners. sempra energy does not control oncor holdings or oncor, and the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. these limitations include limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor boards of directors, as oncor holdings and oncor will continue to have a majority of independent directors. thus, oncor holdings and oncor will continue to be managed independently (i.e., ring-fenced). as such, we account for our 100-percent ownership interest in oncor holdings as an equity method investment. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our equity method investment in oncor holdings. 16 oncor oncor is a regulated electric transmission and distribution utility that operates in the north-central, eastern and western parts of texas. this territory has an estimated population of approximately 10 million. oncor provides the essential service of delivering electricity to end-use consumers through its electrical systems, as well as providing transmission grid connections to merchant generation facilities and interconnections to other transmission grids in texas. at december 31, 2018 , oncor had approximately 4,015 full-time employees, including approximately 740 employees under collective bargaining agreements. customers and demand. oncor operates the largest transmission and distribution system in texas, delivering electricity to more than 3.6 million homes and businesses and operating approximately 137,000 miles of transmission and distribution lines as of december 31, 2018 . oncor is not a seller of electricity, nor does it purchase electricity for resale. rather, oncor provides transmission services to electricity distribution companies, cooperatives and municipalities and distribution services to retail electric providers that sell electricity to retail customers. at december 31, 2018 , oncor's distribution customers consisted of approximately 90 retail electric providers and certain electric cooperatives in its certificated service area. the consumers of the electricity oncor delivers are free to choose their electricity supplier from retail electric providers who compete for their business. oncor's transmission and distribution assets are located principally in the north-central, eastern and western parts of texas. this territory is comprised of over 110 counties and more than 400 incorporated municipalities, including dallas/fort worth and surrounding suburbs, as well as waco, wichita falls, odessa, midland, tyler and killeen. most of oncor's power lines have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to easements or along public highways, streets and rights-of-way as permitted by law. oncor's revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other electricity usage drivers, with revenues being highest in the summer. electricity transmission. oncor's electricity transmission business is responsible for the safe and reliable operations of its transmission network and substations. these responsibilities consist of the construction and maintenance of transmission facilities and substations and the monitoring, controlling and dispatching of high-voltage electricity over its transmission facilities in coordination with ercot, which we discuss below in regulation ercot market. at december 31, 2018 , oncor's transmission system included approximately 16,000 circuit miles of transmission lines, 306 transmission stations and 740 distribution substations, which are interconnected to 75 generation facilities totaling 36,918 mw. transmission revenues are provided under tariffs approved by either the puct or, to a small degree related to an interconnection to other markets, the ferc. network transmission revenues compensate oncor for delivery of electricity over transmission facilities operating at 60 kv and above. other services offered by oncor through its transmission business include system impact studies, facilities studies, transformation service and maintenance of transformer equipment, substations and transmission lines owned by other parties. electricity distribution. oncor's electricity distribution business is responsible for the overall operation of distribution facilities, including electricity delivery, power quality and system reliability. these responsibilities consist of the ownership, management, construction, maintenance and operation of the distribution system within its certificated service area. oncor's distribution system receives electricity from the transmission system through substations and distributes electricity to end-users and wholesale customers through 3,562 distribution feeders. oncor's distribution system included over 3.6 million points of delivery at december 31, 2018 and consisted of approximately 121,000 miles of overhead conductors and underground conductors. distribution revenues from residential and small business users are based on actual monthly consumption (kwh) and, depending on size and annual load factor, revenues from large commercial and industrial users are based either on actual monthly demand (kw) or the greater of actual monthly demand (kw) or 80 percent of peak monthly demand during the prior eleven months. competition. oncor operates in certificated areas designated by the puct. the majority of oncor's service territory is single certificated, with oncor as the only certificated transmission and distribution provider. however, in multi-certificated areas of texas, oncor competes with certain utilities and rural electric cooperatives for the right to serve end-use customers. sempra south american utilities sempra south american utilities develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure through its two utilities, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. it also owns interests in two energy-services companies, tecnored and tecsur, that provide electric construction and infrastructure services to chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, respectively, as well as third parties. tecnored also sells electricity to non-regulated customers. 17 on january 25, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses. we expect to complete the sales process by the end of 2019. chilquinta energ a s.a. chilquinta energ a, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, is an electric distribution utility serving a population of approximately 1.8 million in the region of valpara so in central chile and approximately 130,000 in the communities of parral and linares in the south-central region of maule, with a combined service area covering approximately 4,100 square miles. in december 2018, chilquinta energ a acquired ctng, which owns regulated transmission assets, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. chilquinta energ a is the third largest electricity distribution company in chile, with an approximate 9-percent share of the market. customers and demand. chilquinta energ a provides electric services through the transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: chilquinta energ a electric customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (millions of kwh) december 31, years ended december 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 residential 667,240 1,198 1,136 1,104 commercial 44,905 1,181 1,211 1,178 industrial 1,378 480 500 527 street and highway lighting 8,419 89 89 91 721,942 2,948 2,936 2,900 tolling 100 303 98 90 total 722,042 3,251 3,034 2,990 in chile, customers are classified as regulated or non-regulated based on installed capacity. regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is less than 500 kw. non-regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is greater than 5,000 kw. customers with installed capacity between 500 kw and 5,000 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. non-regulated customers that can buy power from other sources, such as directly from the generator, are classified as tolling customers. both regulated and non-regulated customers pay transmission and distribution tariffs for the transportation of their electricity through the system. there is no risk of stranded costs for chilquinta energ a because ppas with generators are not take-or-pay contracts; rather, chilquinta energ a only purchases power taken by its customers. demand for electricity depends on the growth and stability of the chilean economy, customer growth and preferences, price of electricity, policies and environmental regulations driving the substitution of alternative energy products for wood and coal, legislation and energy policy supporting increased electrification of the public and private transportation sector, and the roll out and expansion of energy efficiency programs and distributed generation resources. the price of electricity can be affected by the growth of renewable power generation, the amount of hydroelectric power, the market price of oil and natural gas, and transmission and distribution service tariffs. other factors that can affect the demand for electricity include weather and seasonality. demand for electricity at chilquinta energ a is higher in the winter months to meet heating load and tends to decrease during the mild temperatures in the summer months. 18 electric resources. the supply of electric power available to chilquinta energ a comes from purchased-power contracts currently in place with various suppliers. the supply as of december 31, 2018 was as follows: chilquinta energ a electric resources contract net operating expiration date capacity (mw) % of total purchased-power contracts: thermal (1) 2023 to 2036 263 54 % hydro 2023 to 2036 148 30 wind/solar 2023 to 2036 65 13 biomass 2023 to 2036 15 3 total 491 100 % (1) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. power generation system. the national electric system is operated and coordinated by the national electric coordinator (coordinador el ctrico nacional). this institution is managed by a directive council (consejo directivo) formed by five members designated through a public tender. this entity coordinates the operation of the nationwide interconnected electric system. transmission system and access. at december 31, 2018, chilquinta energ a's electric facilities include 10,360 miles of distribution lines, 548 miles of transmission lines and 53 substations. chilquinta energ a also owns a 50-percent interest in eletrans, which operates a 97-mile, 220-kv double circuit transmission line in the atacama region of northern chile, and a 46-mile, 220-kv double circuit transmission line in the los rios region of southern chile. transmission lines in chile are either part of the main transmission system (the national system) or the sub-transmission system (the zonal system). sub-transmission systems, including those owned by chilquinta energ a, are comprised of infrastructure that is interconnected to the electricity system to supply non-regulated and regulated end-users located in the distribution service area. we discuss ongoing transmission line projects at chilquinta energ a's jvs in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. competition. chilquinta energ a faces limited competition from the growth in rooftop solar installations, as electricity prices remain competitive and tariffs compensate self-generators only for the commodity component of the energy delivered to the grid. presently, there are no public programs or incentives promoting the adoption of distributed energy generation. in addition, the national electric coordinator will be tendering a significant number of projects, divided between extension work and new development work, for sub-transmission systems. the new development projects in these tenders will be opened to independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for their construction and operation. luz del sur s.a.a. sempra energy indirectly owns 83.6 percent of luz del sur, an electric distribution utility that serves a population of approximately 4.9 million in the southern zone of metropolitan lima, peru, with a service area covering approximately 1,400 square miles. luz del sur delivers approximately 30 percent of all power used in peru. the remaining shares of luz del sur are held by nci and trade on the lima stock exchange (bolsa de valores de lima) under the symbol lusurc1. the shares are subject to regulation by the superintendencia del mercado de valores (superintendency of securities market). 19 customers and demand. luz del sur provides electric services through the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to the following customer classes: luz del sur electric customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (millions of kwh) december 31, years ended december 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 residential 1,022,932 2,995 2,930 2,896 commercial 101,236 2,254 2,416 2,647 industrial 4,166 623 784 1,021 street and highway lighting 5,428 246 206 201 free 164 642 663 622 1,133,926 6,760 6,999 7,387 tolling 362 2,385 1,922 1,365 total 1,134,288 9,145 8,921 8,752 in peru, customers are classified as regulated or non-regulated based on capacity demand. regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is less than 200 kw and their energy supply is considered public service. non-regulated customers, which are free and tolling customers, are those whose capacity demand is greater than 2,500 kw. customers with capacity demand between 200 kw and 2,500 kw may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. free customers purchase power directly from a utility and pay the utility a fee for generation, transmission (primary and secondary) and distribution services. tolling customers purchase power from alternate suppliers and pay only a tolling fee to the utility for secondary transmission and distribution services. utilities in peru, including luz del sur, generally have ppas with generators to serve their regulated and free customers' load. because the power purchased by luz del sur from generators is generally based on take-or-pay contracts, luz del sur is exposed to the risk of stranded costs associated with capacity charges, as we discuss in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. demand for electricity depends on the stability and growth of the peruvian economy, customer growth and usage preferences, electricity prices, legislation and energy policy supporting increased electrification within our service territory. the price of electricity can be affected by changes in energy policy, volatility of spot market prices, the amount of hydroelectric power, the market price of oil and natural gas, changes in inflation and foreign exchange rates, new technologies and transmission and distribution service tariffs, which may also impact demand for electricity. other factors that can affect the demand for electricity include weather and seasonality. demand for electricity at luz del sur is higher in the summer months to meet cooling load and tends to decrease during the colder temperatures in the winter months. electric resources. the supply of electric power available to luz del sur comes from purchased-power contracts currently in place with various suppliers, its own electric generation facility or purchases made on an as-needed basis. this supply as of december 31, 2018 was as follows: luz del sur electric resources contract firm contracted expiration date capacity (mw) % of total owned generation facility, hydro (1) 61 3 % purchased-power contracts: thermal (2) 2021-2027 700 37 hydro 2021-2027 405 21 combined thermal/hydro 2019-2027 750 39 total 1,916 100 % 20 (1) santa teresa has a nameplate capacity of 100 mw with an associated firm capacity estimated at 61 mw based on guidelines established by the system operator in peru and historical water flows. available excess capacity is sold in the spot market. (2) contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal. power generation system. the sistema el ctrico interconectado nacional (sein) is the peruvian national interconnected system. the osinergmin, in addition to setting tariffs, supervises the bidding processes for energy purchases between distribution companies and generators. the committee of economic operation of the national interconnected system (comit de operaci n econ mica del sistema interconectado nacional) coordinates the operation and dispatch of electricity of the sein. transmission system and access. at december 31, 2018, luz del sur's electric facilities consisted of 14,323 miles of distribution lines, 232 miles of transmission lines and 44 substations. luz del sur also owns and operates santa teresa, a 100-mw hydroelectric power plant located in the cusco region of peru. transmission lines in peru are divided into principal and secondary systems. the principal system lines are accessible by all generators and allow the flow of energy through the national grid. the secondary system lines connect principal transmission with the network of distribution companies or connect directly to certain final customers. the transmission company receives tariff revenues and collects tolls based on a charge per unit of electricity. we discuss ongoing transmission line and substation projects at luz del sur in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. competition. while electric distribution companies in peru are considered natural monopolies, users consuming more than 200 kw are free to choose the company of their preference, including luz del sur, to provide them with electric power. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for our south american electric distribution utilities' operations are customer count and consumption and transmission line losses. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations, electric reliability and regulatory compliance. 21 sempra mexico our sempra mexico segment includes the operating companies of our subsidiary, ienova, as well as certain holding companies and risk management activity. ienova develops, builds and operates energy infrastructure in mexico in two key energy markets: gas and power. ienova's gas business offers pipeline services for natural gas, lpg and ethane, as well as storage for lng and lpg and distribution of natural gas. currently, ienova is constructing four marine terminals for the receipt, storage and delivery of hydrocarbons, in addition to two land terminals. in its power business, ienova operates a natural-gas-fired combined-cycle plant and two wind power generation facilities and is constructing four new solar power generation facilities, in addition to the expansion of its energ a sierra ju rez wind power generation facility. sempra energy owns 66.5 percent of ienova as of december 31, 2018 , with the remaining shares held by nci and traded on the mexican stock exchange under the symbol ienova. the mexican national banking and securities commission (comisi n nacional bancaria y de valores, or cnbv), regulates the shares, which are registered with the mexican national securities registry (registro nacional de valores) maintained by the cnbv. we discuss ienova's nci and its acquisition and divestiture activities in notes 1 and 5 , respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the following discussions provide information about sempra mexico's businesses that were operational as of december 31, 2018 . see item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance for information about projects in development or under construction. gas business pipelines and related assets/facilities. at december 31, 2018 , sempra mexico's assets/facilities consisted of 1,353 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines, 12 compressor stations, 139 miles of ethane pipelines, 118 miles of lpg pipelines and one lpg storage terminal in mexico. these assets are contracted under long-term, u.s. dollar-based agreements with major industry participants such as the cfe, cenagas, pemex, shell, gazprom, saavi energy solutions, llc and other similar counterparties. in 2018 , our pipeline assets in mexico had design capacity of approximately 13,901 mmcf per day of natural gas, 204 mmcf per day of ethane gas, 106,000 barrels per day of ethane liquid, 34,000 barrels per day of lpg transmission and 80,000 barrels of lpg storage. lng. sempra mexico operates its eca lng regasification terminal on land it owns in baja california, mexico. the eca lng regasification terminal is capable of processing 1 bcf of natural gas per day and generates revenues from reservation and usage fees under terminal capacity agreements and nitrogen injection service agreements with shell and gazprom, expiring in 2028, that permit them, together, to use one-half of the terminal's capacity. in connection with sempra lng &amp; midstream's lng purchase agreement with tangguh psc, sempra mexico purchases from sempra lng &amp; midstream the lng delivered to eca by tangguh psc. sempra mexico uses the natural gas produced from this lng and natural gas purchased in the market or through sempra lng &amp; midstream's marketing operations to supply a contract for the sale of natural gas to mexico's national electric company, the cfe, at prices that are based on the socal border index. if lng volumes received from tangguh psc are not sufficient to satisfy the commitment to the cfe, sempra mexico may purchase natural gas from sempra lng &amp; midstream's natural gas marketing operations. sempra lng &amp; midstream has an agreement with sempra mexico to supply lng to the eca lng terminal. although the lng purchase agreement specifies a number of cargoes to be delivered annually, actual cargoes delivered have been significantly lower than the maximum specified under the agreement. as a result, sempra lng &amp; midstream is contractually required to make monthly indemnity payments to sempra mexico for failure to deliver the contracted lng. the lng regasification business is impacted by worldwide lng market prices. high lng prices in markets outside the market in which ienova's lng terminal operates have resulted and could continue to result in lower than expected deliveries of lng cargoes to the eca lng terminal from third parties under existing supply agreements, which could increase costs if ienova is instead required to obtain lng in the open market at prevailing prices. any inability to obtain expected lng cargoes could also impact ienova's ability to maintain the minimum level of lng required to keep the eca lng terminal in operation at the proper temperature. prices in international lng markets through which ienova must purchase natural gas to meet its contractual obligations to deliver natural gas to customers may also affect ienova's lng marketing operations, which could have an adverse impact on its earnings, but may be mitigated in part by the indemnity payments discussed above. sempra mexico's lng marketing operations sell natural gas to the cfe and other customers under supply agreements. sempra mexico recognizes the revenue from the sale of natural gas upon transfer of the natural gas via pipelines to the customers at the agreed upon delivery points, and in the case of the cfe, at its thermoelectric power plants. 22 natural gas distribution. sempra mexico's natural gas distribution regulated utility, ecogas, operates in three separate distribution zones in mexico with approximately 2,453 miles of pipeline, and had approximately 123,000 customer meters (serving more than 400,000 residential, commercial and industrial consumers) with sales volume of approximately 18 mmcf per day in 2018 . ecogas relies on affiliates, sempra lng &amp; midstream and socalgas, for the supply and transportation of natural gas that it distributes to its customers. if these affiliates fail to perform and ecogas is unable to obtain supplies of natural gas from alternate sources, ecogas could lose customers and sales volume and could also be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility. ecogas faces competition from other distributors of natural gas in each of its three distribution zones in mexicali, chihuahua and la laguna-durango as other distributors of natural gas build or consider building natural gas distribution systems and compete with ecogas for customers. power business wind power generation. sempra mexico develops, invests in and operates renewable energy generation facilities that have long-term ppas to sell the electricity they generate to its customers, which are generally load serving entities, as well as industrial and other customers. load serving entities sell electric service to their end-users and wholesale customers immediately upon receipt of our power delivery, while industrial and other customers consume the electricity to run their facilities . in 2018 , sempra mexico had contracted capacity of 407 mw for its ownership share of fully operating wind energy generation facilities. natural gas-fired generation. tdm is a 625-mw natural gas-fired power plant located in mexicali, baja california, mexico that generates revenue from selling electricity and/or resource adequacy to the california iso and to governmental, public utility and wholesale power marketing entities. it also has an ema with sempra lng &amp; midstream for energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. under the ema, tdm pays fees to sempra lng &amp; midstream for these revenue-generating services. tdm also purchases fuel from sempra lng &amp; midstream. sempra mexico records revenue for the sale of power generated by tdm and records cost of sales for the purchases of natural gas and energy management services provided by sempra lng &amp; midstream. tdm competes daily with other generating plants that supply power into the california electricity market. several of the wholesale markets supplied by merchant power plants have experienced significant pricing declines due to excess supply. ienova manages commodity price risk at tdm by optimizing a mix of forward on-peak energy sales, daily and hourly spot market sales of capacity, energy and ancillary services, and longer-term structured transactions, as well as avoiding short positions. demand and competition the overall demand for natural gas distribution services increases during the winter months. conversely, in the power business, the overall demand for electricity is greater during the summer months. ienova competes with mexican and foreign companies for certain new energy infrastructure projects in mexico. some of its competitors (including, but not limited to, public or state-operated companies, their subsidiaries and affiliates) may have better access to capital and greater financial and other resources, which could give them a competitive advantage in bidding for such projects. sempra mexico's pipeline and storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated pipelines and storage facilities. they compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. sempra mexico's gas business competitors include, among others: bulkmatic transport company, inc. invex controladora s.a.b. de c.v. carso energy s.a. de c.v. kinder morgan, inc. cfe monterra energy llc corporativo lodemo, s.a. de c.v. naturgy energy group s.a. enag s, s.a. pemex engie s.a. total s.a. fermaca global lp transcanada glencore plc generation from sempra mexico's renewable energy assets is susceptible to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind and inclement weather. because sempra mexico sells power that it generates at its energ a sierra ju rez wind power 23 generation facility into california, sempra mexico's future performance and the demand for renewable energy may be impacted by u.s. state mandated requirements to deliver a portion of total energy load from renewable energy sources. the rules governing these requirements in california are generally known as the rps program. in california, certification of a generation project by the cec as an err allows the purchase of output from such generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the rps program requirements, if such purchase meets the provisions of sb x1-2. the rps program may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by sempra mexico, particularly the demand from california's utilities. we expect to receive err certification for all our sempra mexico renewable facilities providing power to california as they become operational. sempra mexico's power business competitors include, among others: engie s.a. enel spa iberdrola s.a. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for sempra mexico include sales volume, plant or facility availability, capacity utilization and, for its distribution operations, customer count and consumption. additional noncash performance indicators include obtaining and completing (on time and on budget) major projects, compliance with reliability and regulatory standards, and goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory performance. sempra renewables sempra renewables develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in, wind energy generation facilities in the u.s. that have long-term ppas to sell the electricity and the related green energy attributes they generate to its customers, which are generally load serving entities. load serving entities sell electric service to their end-users and wholesale customers immediately upon receipt of our power delivery. on june 25, 2018, our board of directors approved a plan to divest all our non-utility u.s. wind and u.s. solar assets. on december 13, 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of its solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects, as well as its ownership interest in one wind facility, to a subsidiary of con ed for $1.6 billion. in february 2019, sempra renewables entered into an agreement with american electric power to sell its remaining wind assets and investments for $551 million, subject to working capital adjustments and customary closing conditions. we expect to complete the sale in the second quarter of 2019. we provide further information related to these sales in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. certain of sempra renewables' wind power facilities (and certain solar power facilities that were sold to a subsidiary of con ed) are held by limited liability companies whose members include financial institutions. these financial institutions are noncontrolling tax equity investors to which earnings, tax attributes and cash flows are allocated in accordance with the respective limited liability company agreements. we discuss these tax equity arrangements in variable interest entities and in noncontrolling interests in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra renewables' remaining wind energy generation facilities that were operational as of december 31, 2018 have a contracted capacity of 1,260 mw and are fully contracted under long-term ppas for 15 to 25 years. demand and competition generation from sempra renewables' remaining renewable energy assets consisting of wind energy generation facilities is susceptible to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind and inclement weather. sempra renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity. sempra renewables also competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities and other energy service companies for sales of non-contracted renewable energy. the number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. our renewable energy competitors include, among others: edf energy nextera energy resources invenergy southern company midamerican energy 24 key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for sempra renewables include capacity factors, plant availability and sales volume at our renewable energy facilities. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations and compliance with reliability standards. sempra lng &amp; midstream sempra lng &amp; midstream develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in, lng and natural gas midstream assets and operations in north america, including cameron lng jv, natural gas pipelines and marketing operations. on february 7, 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. we discuss this sale below and in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. lng sempra lng &amp; midstream and three project co-owners hold interests in cameron lng jv for the development, construction and operation of a three-train natural gas liquefaction export facility at the existing cameron lng, llc terminal formerly used for regasification in hackberry, louisiana, a project developed and permitted by sempra lng &amp; midstream. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its 50.2-percent equity interest in cameron lng jv under the equity method. cameron lng jv began construction in the second half of 2014 on the natural gas liquefaction export facility using the existing regasification infrastructure contributed by sempra lng &amp; midstream. cameron lng jv has authorization to export lng to both fta and non-fta countries. the three liquefaction trains are designed to have a nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., which subscribe the full nameplate capacity of three trains at the facility. in addition, cameron lng jv is working on the development of up to two additional trains. we discuss cameron lng jv in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and the construction of the first three trains and the potential for an additional two trains in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. sempra energy is also taking steps to explore the development of additional lng export facilities at sempra lng &amp; midstream's port arthur, texas property and sempra mexico's eca regasification facility. we discuss these opportunities in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. demand and competition. technological advances associated with shale gas and tight oil production have significantly reduced the need for north american lng import facilities and increased interest in liquefaction and export opportunities. at current forward gas prices, u.s. gulf coast liquefaction is among the most price competitive potential lng supply in the world. brownfield liquefaction is particularly price competitive, resulting from many factors, including: high levels of developed and undeveloped north american unconventional natural gas and tight oil resources relative to domestic consumption levels; increasing gas and oil drilling productivity and decreasing unit costs of gas production; low breakeven prices of marginal north american unconventional gas production; proximity to ample existing gas transmission pipeline and underground gas storage capacity; and existing lng tankage and berths. global lng competition may limit u.s. lng exports, as international liquefaction projects attempt to match u.s. gulf coast lng production costs and customer contractual rights such as volume and destination flexibility. it is expected that u.s. lng exports will increase competition for current and future global natural gas demand, and thereby facilitate development of a global commodity market for natural gas and lng. 25 our lng liquefaction business' major domestic and international competitors currently would include, among others, the following companies and their related lng affiliates: cheniere energy qatar petroleum energy transfer royal dutch shell exxonmobil steelhead lng freeport lng tellurian inc. lng ltd texas lng next decade venture global partners pembina resources woodside petroleum additionally, our cameron lng jv co-owners, affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation (through a related company jointly established with nippon yusen kabushiki kaisha) and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., compete globally to market and sell lng to end users, including gas and electric utilities located in lng importing countries around the world. by providing liquefaction services, cameron lng jv will compete indirectly with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the global lng market. in addition to the u.s., these competitors are located in the middle east, southeast asia, africa, south america, australia and europe. midstream as of december 31, 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream had 42 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity, a development project and natural gas pipeline, as follows: bay gas is a facility located 40 miles north of mobile, alabama, that provides underground storage (20 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity) and delivery of natural gas. sempra lng &amp; midstream owns approximately 91 percent of the facility. mississippi hub is an underground salt dome with 22 bcf of operational working natural gas storage capacity located 45 miles southeast of jackson, mississippi. liberty gas storage, llc owns a 75.4-percent interest in la storage, a salt cavern development project in cameron parish, louisiana, and proliance transportation llc owns the remaining 24.6 percent. cameron interstate pipeline is a 36-mile natural gas pipeline in south louisiana. the pipeline links the cameron lng terminal in cameron parish, louisiana, to five interstate pipelines that connect to major markets in the midwest, northeast and southeast u.s . on february 7, 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. sempra lng &amp; midstream received cash proceeds of $328 million (subject to working capital adjustments and sempra lng &amp; midstream's purchase for $20 million of the 9.1-percent minority interest in bay gas immediately prior to and included as part of the sale). at closing, arclight capital partners owns 100-percent of mississippi hub and bay gas. upon completion of the sale, sempra lng &amp; midstream has no operational working natural gas storage capacity. demand and competition. sempra lng &amp; midstream's pipeline businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated pipelines. they compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. marketing operations sempra lng &amp; midstream provides natural gas marketing, trading and risk management services through the utilization and optimization of contracted natural gas supply, transportation and storage capacity, as well as optimizing its assets in the short-term services market. additionally, it sells electricity under short-term and long-term contracts and into the spot market and other competitive markets. sempra lng &amp; midstream's marketing operations have an lng purchase agreement with tangguh psc for the supply of the equivalent of 500 mmcf of natural gas per day from tangguh psc's indonesian liquefaction facility with delivery to sempra mexico's eca lng receipt terminal at a price based on the socal border index for natural gas. the lng purchase agreement allows tangguh psc to divert deliveries to other global markets in exchange for cash differential payments to sempra lng &amp; midstream. sempra lng &amp; midstream also may enter into short-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at the terminal for sale to other parties. 26 in addition to lng, if deliveries of lng cargoes are not sufficient, sempra lng &amp; midstream is also contracted to sell natural gas to sempra mexico that allows sempra mexico to satisfy its obligation under supply agreements with the cfe and other customers and to supply the tdm power plant. these revenues are adjusted for indemnity payments and profit sharing, as discussed in sempra mexico gas business lng above. sempra lng &amp; midstream also has an ema with sempra mexico to provide energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to sempra mexico's tdm power plant to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. we discuss the ema in sempra mexico power business natural gas-fired generation above. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators at sempra lng &amp; midstream include natural gas sales volume, plant or facility availability and capacity utilization. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory compliance, and on-time and on-budget completion of development projects. regulation california state utility regulation the california utilities are principally regulated at the state level by the cpuc, the cec and the carb . the cpuc: consists of five commissioners appointed by the governor of california for staggered, six-year terms; regulates sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in u.s. utility regulation; has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric generation, transmission and distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in california; conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines and conducts investigations into various matters, such as safety, deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies; and regulates the interactions and transactions of the california utilities with sempra energy and its other affiliates. the cpuc also oversees and regulates new products and services, including solar and wind energy, bioenergy, alternative energy storage and other forms of renewable energy. in addition, the cpuc's safety and enforcement role includes inspections, investigations and penalty and citation processes for safety violations. the cec publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories. based on these forecasts, the cec: determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs; sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects; promotes energy conservation programs to reduce demand within the state of california for electricity and natural gas; maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within the state of california. the cec conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in california. this forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. this analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the california utilities' long-term investment decisions. the state of california requires certain california electric retail sellers, including sdg&amp;e, to deliver a percentage of their retail energy sales from renewable energy sources. the rules governing this requirement, administered by both the cpuc and the cec, are generally known as the rps program. we discuss this requirement as it applies to sdg&amp;e in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. california ab 32, the california global warming solutions act of 2006, assigns responsibility to carb for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing ghg emissions. the bill requires carb to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective ghg emission reductions, including a statewide ghg emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of ghg emissions. carb is a department within the california environmental protection agency, an organization that reports directly to the governor's office in the executive 27 branch of california state government. sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico are also subject to the rules and regulations of carb. the operation and maintenance of socalgas' natural gas storage facilities are regulated by doggr, as well as various other state and local agencies. texas state utility regulation oncor's transmission and distribution rates are regulated by the puct and certain cities, and in certain limited instances, by the ferc. the puct has original jurisdiction over transmission and distribution rates and services in unincorporated areas and in those municipalities that have ceded original jurisdiction to the puct, and has exclusive appellate jurisdiction to review the rate and service orders and ordinances of municipalities. generally, the texas pura prohibits the collection of any rates or charges by a public utility (as defined by pura) that do not have the prior approval of the appropriate regulatory authority (i.e., the puct or the municipality with original jurisdiction). at the state level, pura requires owners or operators of transmission facilities to provide open-access wholesale transmission services to third parties at rates and terms that are nondiscriminatory and comparable to the rates and terms of the utility's own use of its system. the puct has adopted rules implementing the state open-access requirements for all utilities that are subject to the puct's jurisdiction over transmission services, including oncor. u.s. utility regulation the california utilities are also regulated at the federal level by the ferc, the nrc, the epa, the doe and the dot. the ferc regulates the california utilities' interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the application of the uniform systems of accounts. in the case of sdg&amp;e, the ferc regulates the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale. the energy policy act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. the ferc approved the california ious' transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the california iso in 1998. oncor operates within the ercot market, which we discuss below. oncor's transmission revenues are provided under tariffs approved by either the puct or, to a small degree related to limited interconnections to other markets, the ferc. the nrc oversees the licensing, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities in the u.s., including songs, in which sdg&amp;e owns a 20-percent interest and which has been permanently retired since 2013. nrc and various state regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. we provide further discussion of songs matters, including the closure and pending decommissioning of the facility, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the epa implements federal laws to protect human health and the environment, including federal laws on air quality, water quality, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, and hazardous waste disposal and remediation. the epa also sets national environmental standards that state and tribal governments implement through their own regulations. the california utilities and oncor are therefore subject to an interrelated framework of environmental laws and regulations. the dot, through phmsa, has established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable to the california utilities' natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines. the dot has certified the cpuc to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in california. the phmsa also is in the process of promulgating regulations applicable to the california utilities' natural gas storage facilities. see other u.s. regulation below. ercot market oncor operates within the ercot market, which represents approximately 90 percent of the electricity consumption in texas. ercot is the regional reliability coordinating organization for member electricity systems in texas and the iso of the interconnected transmission grid for those systems. ercot is responsible for ensuring reliability, adequacy and security of the electric systems, as well as nondiscriminatory access to transmission service by all wholesale market participants in the ercot region. ercot's membership consists of corporate and associate members, including electric cooperatives, municipal power agencies, independent generators, independent power marketers, transmission service providers, distribution services providers, independent retail electric providers and consumers. the ercot market operates under reliability standards set by the north american electric reliability corporation. the puct has primary jurisdiction over the ercot market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of power supply across texas' main interconnected transmission grid. oncor, along with other owners of transmission and distribution facilities in texas, assists the ercot iso in its operations. oncor has planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance responsibility for the portion 28 of the transmission grid and for the load-serving substations it owns, primarily within its certificated distribution service area. oncor participates with the ercot iso and other ercot utilities in obtaining regulatory approvals and planning, designing, constructing and upgrading transmission lines in order to remove existing constraints and interconnect generation on the ercot transmission grid. the transmission line projects are necessary to meet reliability needs, support energy production and increase bulk power transfer capability. oncor is subject to reliability standards adopted and enforced by the texas reliability entity, inc., an independent organization that develops reliability standards for the ercot region and monitors and enforces compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation (including critical infrastructure protection) standards and ercot protocols. other state and local regulation within the u.s. the scaqmd is the air pollution control agency responsible for regulating stationary sources of air pollution in the south coast air basin in southern california. the district's territory covers all of orange county and the urban portions of los angeles, san bernardino and riverside counties. sdg&amp;e has electric franchises with the two counties and the 27 cities in or adjoining its electric service territory; and natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory. these franchises allow sdg&amp;e to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. some natural gas and some electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range from 2021 to 2035. socalgas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and the 223 cities in its service territory. these franchises allow socalgas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2019 to 2062. other u.s. regulation the ferc regulates certain sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream assets pursuant to the federal power act and natural gas act, which provide for ferc jurisdiction over, among other things, sales of wholesale power in interstate commerce, transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting of lng terminals. in addition, certain sempra renewables power generation assets are required under the federal power act to comply with reliability standards developed by the north american electric reliability corporation. sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment in cameron lng jv is subject to regulations of the doe regarding the export of lng. the ferc may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the ferc to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. ferc-regulated rates at the following businesses are: sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream: market-based for wholesale electricity sales sempra lng &amp; midstream: cost-based for the transportation of natural gas sempra lng &amp; midstream: market-based for the purchase and sale of lng and natural gas the california utilities, sempra lng &amp; midstream and businesses that sempra lng &amp; midstream invests in are subject to the dot rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety. phmsa, acting through the office of pipeline safety, is responsible for administering the dot's national regulatory program to assure the safe transportation of natural gas, petroleum and other hazardous materials by pipelines, including pipelines associated with natural gas storage, and develops regulations and other approaches to risk management to assure safety in design, construction, testing, operation, maintenance and emergency response of pipeline facilities. the california utilities, sempra lng &amp; midstream, sempra renewables and sempra mexico are also subject to regulation by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission. foreign regulation sempra south american utilities has two utilities in south america that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate. these utilities serve primarily regulated customers, and their revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the cne in chile and the osinergmin in peru, as we discuss below in ratemaking mechanisms sempra south american utilities. operations and projects in our sempra mexico segment are subject to regulation by the cre, the mexican safety, energy and environment agency (agencia de seguridad, energ a y ambiente), the mexican secretary of energy (secretar a de energ a) and other labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in mexico. 29 licenses and permits the california utilities and sempra texas utility obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, including electric generation and natural gas storage facilities, some of which may require periodic renewal. sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their electric and natural gas distribution, generation and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. the respective energy ministries in chile or peru granted the concessions to operate chilquinta energ a's and luz del sur's distribution operations for indefinite terms, not requiring renewal. the permits for generation, transportation, storage and distribution operations at sempra mexico are generally for 30-year terms, with options for renewal under certain regulatory conditions. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream obtain licenses and permits for the construction, operation and expansion of lng facilities and for the import and export of lng and natural gas. sempra mexico also obtains licenses and permits for the construction and operation of terminals for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. sempra renewables obtains permits, authorizations and licenses for the construction and operation of power generation facilities and for the wholesale distribution of electricity. sempra lng &amp; midstream obtains permits, authorizations and licenses for the construction and operation of natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, and in connection with participation in the wholesale electricity market. most of the permits and licenses associated with construction and operations within the sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream businesses are for periods generally in alignment with the construction cycle or life of the asset and in many cases are greater than 20 years. ratemaking mechanisms california utilities general rate case proceedings. a cpuc grc proceeding is designed to set sufficient base rates to allow the california utilities to recover their reasonable forecasted cost of o&amp;m and to provide the opportunity to realize their authorized rates of return on their investment. the proceeding generally establishes the test year revenue requirements, which authorizes how much the california utilities can collect from their customers, and provides for attrition, or annual increases in revenue requirements, for each year following the test year. the cpuc generally conducts a grc every three years. cost of capital proceedings. a cpuc cost of capital proceeding determines a utility's authorized capital structure and authorized return on rate base, which is a weighted-average of the authorized returns on debt, preferred stock and common equity (referred to as return on equity or roe), weighted on a basis consistent with the authorized capital structure. the authorized return on rate base approved by the cpuc is the rate that the california utilities use to establish customer rates to recover costs incurred to finance investments in cpuc-regulated electric distribution and generation, as well as natural gas distribution and transmission assets. a cost of capital proceeding also addresses the ccm, which applies market-based benchmarks to determine whether an adjustment to the authorized return on rate base is required during the interim years between cost of capital proceedings. the automatic ccm did not operate in 2018. the ccm will be reviewed in the next cost of capital proceeding scheduled to be filed in april 2019 for a january 1, 2020 implementation. the ccm, if renewed in the 2019 cost of capital proceeding in a form similar to its previous design, could automatically adjust roe up or down based on the monthly moody's utility bond index, beginning in 2021. sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' current cost of capital will continue through 2019. beginning in 2020, the conclusions authorized in the cost of capital proceeding could impact the cost of debt, including debt and roe, capital structure and the ccm. we also discuss the cost of capital and ccm in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. transmission rate cases. sdg&amp;e files separately with the ferc for its authorized roe on ferc-regulated electric transmission operations and assets. the to4 settlement agreement, approved by the ferc in may 2014 and in effect through december 31, 2018, established a 10.05 percent roe. the settlement also established 1) a process whereby rates are determined using a base period of historical costs and a forecast of capital investments and 2) a true-up period similar to balancing account treatment that is designed to provide sdg&amp;e earnings of no more and no less than its actual cost of service including its authorized return on investment. sdg&amp;e makes annual information filings on december 1 of each year to update rates for the following calendar year. 30 sdg&amp;e submitted its to5 filing with the ferc in october 2018 with a proposed ferc roe of 11.2 percent to be effective january 1, 2019. in december 2018, the ferc issued an order accepting the filing, suspending its implementation until june 1, 2019 subject to refund, and establishing hearing and settlement procedures, which we discuss in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e also has the right to file for any roe incentives that might apply under ferc rules. sdg&amp;e's debt-to-equity ratio will be set annually based on the actual ratio at the end of each year. incentive mechanisms. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california ious, under which the california utilities have earnings potential above authorized cpuc base operating margin if they achieve or exceed specific performance and operating goals. generally, for performance-based awards, if performance is above or below specific benchmarks, the utility is eligible for financial awards or subject to financial penalties. sdg&amp;e has incentive mechanisms associated with: operational incentives (electric reliability) energy efficiency socalgas has incentive mechanisms associated with: energy efficiency natural gas procurement unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services other cost-based recovery. the cpuc authorizes the california utilities to collect additional revenue requirements to recover costs that they have been authorized to pass on to customers, including the costs to purchase electricity and natural gas and those associated with administering public purpose, demand response and customer energy efficiency programs. actual costs are recovered as the commodity or service is delivered or, to the extent actual amounts vary from forecasts, generally recovered or refunded within a subsequent period based on the nature of the account. overcollections and undercollections represent differences between cash collected in current rates and amounts due for specified components (including costs, depreciation and return on rate base) probable of recovery from ratepayers. the lagging aspect of overcollections and undercollections impacts cash flows until these respective amounts are trued up with collections from customers. because changes in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' cost of electricity and/or natural gas is substantially recovered in rates through a balancing account mechanism, changes in these costs are offset in revenues, and therefore do not impact earnings. we also discuss regulatory matters in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra texas utility rates and cost recovery. oncor's rates are regulated by the puct and certain cities and are subject to regulatory rate-setting processes and annual earnings oversight. this regulatory treatment does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. oncor's rates are regulated based on an analysis of its costs and capital structure, as reviewed and approved in a regulatory proceeding. rate regulation is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, there is no assurance that the puct will judge all of oncor's costs to have been prudently incurred, that the puct will not reduce the amount of invested capital included in the capital structure that oncor's rates are based upon, that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that produce full recovery of oncor's costs or that oncor's authorized roe will not be reduced. the pura allows utilities to file, under certain circumstances, once per year and up to four rate adjustments between comprehensive base rate proceedings to recover distribution-related investments on an interim basis. puct substantive rules also allow oncor to update its transmission rates periodically to reflect changes in invested capital. these capital tracker provisions encourage investment in the electric system to help ensure reliability and efficiency by allowing for timely recovery of and return on new investments. capital structure and return on equity. in october 2017, the puct approved new rates in oncor's 2017 rate review that took effect on november 27, 2017. oncor's puct-authorized roe is 9.8 percent and its authorized regulatory capital structure is 57.5 percent debt to 42.5 percent equity. sempra south american utilities chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, our electric distribution utilities in south america, recognize revenues based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in their respective countries based on an efficient model distribution company defined by those agencies. the tariffs are based on a model and are intended to cover the costs of the model company. because the tariffs are not based on the costs of the specific utility, they may not result in full cost recovery. the tariffs are designed to provide for a pass- 31 through to customers of transmission and energy charges, recovery of reasonable operating and administrative costs, incentives to reduce costs and make needed capital investments and a regulated rate of return on the distributor's regulated asset base. chilquinta energ a's revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the cne. the cne's review process for authorized distribution and transmission rates generally remains in effect for a period of four years. the cne reviews rates for four-year periods related to distribution and transmission separately on an alternating basis every two years. luz del sur's revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the osinergmin. the components of tariffs for luz del sur are reviewed and adjusted every four years. we discuss recent rate reviews for chilquinta energ a and luz del sur in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra mexico ecogas' revenues are derived from service and distribution fees charged to its customers in pesos. the price ecogas pays to purchase natural gas, which is based on international price indices, is passed through directly to its customers. the service and distribution fees charged by ecogas are regulated by the cre, which performs a review of rates every five years and monitors prices charged to end-users. the tariffs operate under a return-on-asset-base model. in the annual tariff adjustment, rates are adjusted to account for inflation or fluctuations in exchange rates, and inflation indexing includes separate u.s. and mexican cost components so that u.s. costs can be included in the final distribution rates. environmental matters we discuss environmental issues affecting us in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions. hazardous substances the cpuc's hazardous waste collaborative mechanism allows california's ious to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain superfund sites. this mechanism permits the california utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. in addition, the california utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates. we record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. in addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets. air and water quality the electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air quality and ghg standards, such as those established by the carb and scaqmd. the california utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards. we discuss ghg standards and credits further in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss environmental matters concerning socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance and in item 1a. risk factors. 32 other matters executive officers of the registrants executive officers of sempra energy name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position jeffrey w. martin 57 chairman december 2018 to present chief executive officer may 2018 to present executive vice president and chief financial officer january 2017 to april 2018 chairman, sdg&amp;e november 2015 to december 2016 president, sdg&amp;e october 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, sdg&amp;e january 2014 to december 2016 joseph a. householder 63 president and chief operating officer may 2018 to present corporate group president - infrastructure businesses january 2017 to april 2018 executive vice president and chief financial officer october 2011 to december 2016 martha b. wyrsch (2) 61 executive vice president and general counsel september 2013 to present dennis v. arriola 58 executive vice president and group president october 2018 to present chief strategy officer and executive vice president of external affairs and south america april 2018 to september 2018 executive vice president - corporate strategy and external affairs january 2017 to april 2018 chairman, socalgas november 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, socalgas march 2014 to december 2016 president, socalgas august 2012 to september 2016 trevor i. mihalik 52 executive vice president and chief financial officer may 2018 to present senior vice president december 2013 to april 2018 controller and chief accounting officer july 2012 to april 2018 g. joyce rowland 64 senior vice president and chief culture officer august 2018 to present senior vice president, chief human resources officer and chief administrative officer september 2014 to august 2018 senior vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion may 2010 to september 2014 peter r. wall 47 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer may 2018 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra infrastructure january 2017 to april 2018 vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power march 2015 to december 2016 assistant controller october 2012 to march 2015 (1) ages are as of february 26, 2019. (2) ms. wyrsch will retire as of march 1, 2019. 33 executive officers of sdg&amp;e name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position kevin c. sagara 57 chairman and chief executive officer september 2018 to present president, sempra renewables october 2013 to september 2018 scott d. drury 53 president january 2017 to present chief energy supply officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion march 2011 to june 2015 caroline a. winn 55 chief operating officer january 2017 to present chief energy delivery officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - customer services april 2010 to june 2015 bruce a. folkmann 51 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer march 2015 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power july 2013 to march 2015 p. kevin chase 50 senior vice president, chief information officer and chief digital officer june 2018 to present chief information officer, sempra energy march 2017 to june 2018 chief information officer and senior vice president of technology and supply chain, energy future holdings june 2011 to october 2016 randall l. clark 49 chief human resources officer and chief administrative officer march 2017 to present vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion october 2015 to march 2017 vice president - human resources services, sempra energy september 2014 to october 2015 vice president - compliance and governance, sempra energy january 2014 to september 2014 diana l. day 54 vice president and general counsel january 2019 to present acting general counsel september 2017 to january 2019 vice president of enterprise risk management and compliance, socalgas and sdg&amp;e june 2014 to january 2019 associate general counsel january 2014 to june 2014 (1) ages are as of february 26, 2019. 34 executive officers of socalgas name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position j. bret lane 59 chief executive officer december 2018 to present president september 2016 to present chief operating officer january 2014 to december 2018 principal executive officer november 2018 to december 2018 jimmie i. cho 54 chief operating officer january 2019 to present senior vice president of customer services and gas distribution operations april 2018 to january 2019 senior vice president of gas distribution operations, sdg&amp;e april 2018 to january 2019 senior vice president of gas engineering and distribution operations, socalgas and sdg&amp;e october 2017 to april 2018 senior vice president of gas operations and system integrity, socalgas and sdg&amp;e june 2014 to october 2017 vice president of gas operations, socalgas and sdg&amp;e january 2012 to june 2014 bruce a. folkmann 51 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer march 2015 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power july 2013 to march 2015 p. kevin chase 50 senior vice president, chief information officer and chief digital officer june 2018 to present chief information officer, sempra energy march 2017 to june 2018 chief information officer and senior vice president of technology and supply chain, energy future holdings june 2011 to october 2016 gillian a. wright 49 chief human resources officer and chief administrative officer april 2018 to present vice president of customer services january 2014 to april 2018 david j. barrett 54 vice president and general counsel january 2019 to present associate general counsel of gas infrastructure, sempra energy june 2018 to january 2019 assistant general counsel of gas infrastructure, sempra energy february 2017 to june 2018 assistant general counsel of real estate and environmental, sdg&amp;e october 2010 to february 2017 (1) ages are as of february 26, 2019. employees of the registrants the table below shows the number of employees for each of our registrants at december 31, 2018. employees represented by labor unions are covered under various collective bargaining agreements that generally cover wages, benefits, working conditions and other terms and conditions of employment. number of employees number of employees % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements expiring within one year sempra energy consolidated (1) 16,823 41 % 2 % sdg&amp;e (1) 4,113 29 % % socalgas 7,523 60 % % (1) excludes employees of equity method investees and vies as defined by u.s. gaap. company websites company website addresses are 35 sempra energy www.sempra.com sdg&amp;e www.sdge.com socalgas www.socalgas.com we make available free of charge on the sempra energy website, and for sdg&amp;e and socalgas, via a hyperlink on their websites, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the charters of the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of the sempra energy board of directors, sempra energy's corporate governance guidelines, and sempra energy's code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers (which also applies to directors and officers of sdg&amp;e and socalgas) are posted on sempra energy's website. printed copies of these materials may be obtained by writing to our corporate secretary at sempra energy, 488 8 th avenue, san diego, ca 92101-7123. the sec also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file with the sec at www.sec.gov. the information on the websites of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas is not part of this report or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec and is not incorporated herein by reference. item 1a. risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in, or attached as an exhibit to, this annual report on form 10-k, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. in this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on us, or may, could or will materially adversely affect us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will, as the case may be, have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities or those of our subsidiaries. risks related to sempra energy sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and entities that are accounted for as equity method investments, such as oncor holdings, and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries and equity method investments. we are a holding company and substantially all our assets are owned by our subsidiaries and in entities accounted for as equity method investments, such as oncor holdings. our ability to pay dividends and to meet our debt and other obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from our subsidiaries and jvs and other entities in which we have invested and, in the short term, our ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from our subsidiaries and other entities in which we have invested depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, common and preferred stock dividends, and debt or other obligations. in addition, the subsidiaries and other entities accounted for as equity method investments are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans or distributions to us, whether to enable us to pay principal and interest on our debt securities, our other obligations or dividends on our common stock or our preferred stock, and could be precluded from paying any such dividends or making any such loans or distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. the inability to access capital from our subsidiaries and entities accounted for as equity method investments as well from the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook. 36 credit rating agencies routinely evaluate sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas, and their long-term and short-term debt ratings are based on a number of factors, including the perceived supportiveness of the regulatory environment affecting utility operations, ability to generate cash flows, level of indebtedness, overall financial strength and the status of certain capital projects, as well as factors beyond our control, such as tax reform, the state of the economy and our industry generally. moody's, s&amp;p and fitch ratings have increasingly focused on the increased risk of wildfires in california, the current california regulatory environment and the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which under california law imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault). in 2018, and primarily as a result of their position on the increased risk of wildfires in california and the current california regulatory environment, each of moody's, s&amp;p and fitch ratings downgraded sdg&amp;e's issuer rating, senior secured and senior unsecured credit ratings. on january 21, 2019, s&amp;p downgraded sdg&amp;e's issuer credit rating to bbb+ from a- while maintaining its negative outlook. on january 22, 2019, fitch ratings affirmed sdg&amp;e's long-term issuer default rating at a- but revised the rating outlook to negative from stable. on january 24, 2019, moody's placed sdg&amp;e under review for downgrade. the ratings actions in january 2019 were primarily the result of recent wildfires in california in counties outside of the california utilities' electric service territory and the possible inability to recover costs and expenses in cases where california ious, like the california utilities, are determined to have had their equipment be the cause of a fire. while sdg&amp;e's credit ratings are investment grade, each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no assurance that sdg&amp;e's current credit ratings and ratings outlooks will remain the same or that sdg&amp;e's credit ratings will not be further downgraded. also, in 2018, each of moody's, s&amp;p and fitch ratings affirmed credit ratings of sempra energy, and socalgas, with moody's and s&amp;p changing sempra energy's outlook to negative, and s&amp;p changing socalgas' outlook to negative. for sempra energy, the credit rating agencies noted that the following, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: further weakening of sdg&amp;e's business risk profile reflecting persistent california wildfires or if there is little meaningful progress in addressing inverse condemnation via changes in legislation and/or regulation in california that significantly reduces the exposure of electric utilities to strict liability in connection with wildfires; if sempra energy fails to show a gradual improvement in certain of its financial metrics or does not address upcoming holding company debt maturities; if cameron lng jv experiences cost overruns or delays requiring a substantially higher amount of equity injection from sempra energy than the credit rating agencies have estimated, or if the project is highly likely to be delayed beyond the long-stop completion date in september 2021 with low likelihood of extension or is terminated, making the exercise of the completion guarantee highly probable; and/or a downgrade at the california utilities. for socalgas, the credit rating agencies noted that the following, among others, could lead to a negative ratings action: a deterioration in the utility's relationship with the cpuc and/or the credit supportiveness of the california regulatory environment; a weakening to sdg&amp;e's business risk profile reflecting continued and persistent california wildfires without a longer term reform to inverse condemnation; and/or the 2019 grc results in inadequate relief or higher leverage that weakens socalgas' credit metrics on a sustained basis. while sempra energy's and socalgas' credit ratings are investment grade, each of the credit rating agencies reviews their ratings periodically, and there is no assurance that sempra energy's and socalgas' current credit ratings and ratings outlooks will remain the same or that sempra energy's and/or socalgas' credit ratings will not be downgraded. a downgrade of sempra energy's or any of its subsidiaries' credit ratings or rating outlooks may result in a requirement for collateral to be posted in the case of certain financing arrangements and may materially and adversely affect the market prices of their equity and debt securities, the rates at which borrowings are made and commercial paper is issued, and the various fees on their outstanding credit facilities. this could make it significantly more costly for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas and sempra energy's other subsidiaries to issue debt securities, to borrow under credit facilities and to raise certain other types of capital and/or complete additional financings. such amounts could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and 37 other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new or ongoing business activities. this could cause us to reduce non-safety related capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. in addition, our variable rate indebtedness and credit facilities may incorporate libor as a benchmark for establishing certain rates. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness and/or borrowings , and could impact the applicability of our cash flow hedges. other factors can affect the availability and cost of credit for our businesses as well as the terms of equity and debt financing, including: changes or lack of changes to the regulatory environment in the state of california that may negatively affect energy companies generally, or the california utilities in particular; the failure of the state of california to adequately address the financial and operational risks posed by the increased incidents of wildfires and by inverse condemnation; the overall health of the energy industry; volatility in electricity or natural gas prices; an increase in interest rates by the federal reserve bank; credit ratings downgrades; and general economic and financial market conditions . in addition, over the past two years, california ious have suffered from the potential catastrophic losses resulting from the impact of the multiple wildfires that spread through northern and southern california (the california wildfires ). while the california wildfires occurred in counties outside of the california utilities' electric service territory, the uncertainty about the outcomes of these matters and the possibility of catastrophic wildfires in the future have negatively impacted confidence in california ious generally, which could materially and adversely impact sempra energy's and the california utilities' ability to access the capital markets at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk. we have significant foreign operations in mexico and south america. our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax and economic risks. certain of these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which may be driven by changes in their environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities that give rise to mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. our primary objective when we attempt to reduce foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to hedge material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities. because we do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in oci caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in item 7. md&amp;a and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the current u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements, such as nafta, and u.s. immigration policy by reviewing various options, including tariffs, for funding new mexico-u.s. border security infrastructure. for example, in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets that could materially 38 adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. in addition, if nafta is replaced or the u.s. withdraws from the agreement, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our plan to divest certain of our assets as part of our capital rotation plan, our north american business strategy or our cost reduction efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. in june 2018, we announced that our board of directors approved a plan to divest all our u.s. solar and wind assets and certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (collectively, the non-utility u.s. assets). additionally, in january 2019, we announced that our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses. while we have completed the sale of a substantial portion of the non-utility u.s. assets and expect to complete the sale of the remaining non-utility u.s. assets in the second quarter of 2019, the pending sale will depend on the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions. while we expect to complete the sale of our south american businesses by the end of 2019, the planned sale will depend on several factors that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market conditions, industry trends, consent rights or other rights granted to or held by third parties and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms. further, there can be no assurance that the completed sales, or the pending and planned sales, if completed, will result in additional value to our shareholders, or that we will be able to redeploy any capital that we obtain from such sales in a way that would result in additional value to our shareholders. if we do not successfully manage our current capital rotation plan, our north american business strategy or our cost reduction efforts, or any other such activities that we may initiate in the future, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. while we strive to maintain constructive, ongoing communications with all our shareholders, and welcome their views and opinions with the goal of enhancing value for all our shareholders, activist shareholders may, from time to time, engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management. responding to proposals by activist shareholders, including in connection with a proxy contest instituted by shareholders, would require us to incur significant legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses (in the case of a proxy contest) and administrative and associated costs and require significant time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategy. for example, on june 11, 2018, elliott associates, l.p. and elliott international, l.p. (collectively, elliott) and bluescape resources company llc (bluescape), collectively holders of an approximately 4.9-percent economic interest in our outstanding common stock as of such date, delivered a letter and accompanying presentation to our board of directors seeking collaboration with them and management to nominate six new directors identified by elliott and bluescape and establish a committee of the board of directors to conduct portfolio and operational reviews of our business. on september 18, 2018, we announced that we entered into a cooperation agreement with elliott, bluescape and cove key management, lp. under the cooperation agreement, each party has agreed to certain customary standstill restrictions until december 31, 2019, which is subject to extension until september 30, 2020 under certain circumstances. there can be no assurance that the cooperation agreement will be extended and any failure to secure an extension or a termination of the agreement without a resolution could negatively impact the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and other securities. in addition, upon termination of the cooperation agreement, elliott, bluescape and/or cove key management, lp may, among other things, attempt to effect additional significant changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management, which may disrupt our operations by requiring significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. we discuss the cooperation agreement in md&amp;a - factors influencing future performance. any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control, our ability to execute on our strategy, or changes to the composition of our board of directors or senior management team arising from proposals by activist shareholders or a proxy contest could lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or instability that may be exploited by our competitors and/or other activist shareholders, result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives or attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business and operating results. we may choose to initiate, or may become subject to, litigation as a result of proposals by activist shareholders or proxy contests or matters relating thereto, which would serve as a further distraction to our board of directors and management and could require us to incur significant additional costs. 39 actions such as those described above could cause significant fluctuations in the trading prices of our common stock and our preferred stock, based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. the tcja may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the tcja significantly changed the irc, including taxation of u.s. corporations by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, altering the expensing of capital expenditures, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign entities at the time of enactment and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. certain aspects of the legislation are subject to interpretation and will require implementing regulations by the u.s. department of the treasury, as well as state tax authorities. the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of this legislation will be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, the ferc or state public utility commissions may respond to the tcja, we do expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, will be negatively impacted as a result of an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our domestic utility subsidiaries due to the decrease in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100-percent expensing of capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will reduce any potential adverse impact from these provisions of the tcja. in addition, although we are not currently expecting the deductibility of our interest costs to affect future earnings based on our method of allocation across our businesses, the interest deduction limitation under the tcja is subject to potential additional guidance or interpretation from the u.s. department of the treasury, and there can be no assurance that any such additional guidance will not impact our current assessment. it is also uncertain whether additional avenues will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of this legislation. we believe that these strategies, to the extent available and if successfully applied, could lessen any such negative impacts on us, although there can be no assurance in this regard. in addition, adoption of the tcja by state tax authorities, additional interpretations, regulations, amendments or technical corrections could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we discuss the effects of the tcja further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a results of operations. risks related to all sempra energy businesses severe weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities; electric transmission and distribution; power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation; marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; and nuclear power facilities, nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities (through our 20-percent minority interest in songs, which is currently being decommissioned). such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect 40 our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other ghg; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance, in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below under risks related to the california utilities insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects, as well as the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or requirements or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; and electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed, or approvals reversed or modified in litigation or otherwise. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements with los angeles county and the city of los angeles, where the aliso canyon 41 natural gas storage facility is located, are due to expire in 2023 and 2019, respectively. sdg&amp;e's franchise agreement with the city of san diego is due to expire in 2021. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy projects and properties; regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our jvs, are subject to laws and regulations that have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to power generation facilities. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as potential state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, sb 350 requires all load-serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that are intended to ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in ghg emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in item 7. md&amp;a and in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings, including in connection with the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility natural gas leak. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. the uncertainties 42 inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present, among other things, a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. additionally, we often rely on third party vendors to deploy new business technologies and maintain, modify and update our systems, including systems that manage sensitive information. these third parties could fail to establish adequate risk management and information security measures to protect our systems and information. while our computer systems have been, and will continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, including investing in risk management and information security measures to protect our systems. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated cyber risks. despite our best efforts, our businesses may not be fully insulated from cyber-attacks and system disruptions. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas, ethane, lng, lpg or propane pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial and reputational loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. 43 in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. sempra energy maintains cyber liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in scope and subject to exceptions, conditions and coverage limitations and may not cover any or even a substantial portion of the costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised and there is no guarantee that the insurance that we do maintain will continue to be available at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service; sales of securities ; rates of return; capital structure; rates of depreciation; and long-term resource procurement . the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility operations, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms and performance-based regulation in notes 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment, as well as settlements. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or denying recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards, authorizations for less than full recovery or rejection of their settlements may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc decision tree framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of a portion of these historical costs, which could adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the cpuc now incorporates a risk-based decision-making framework in its review of grc applications for major natural gas and electric utilities in california. we cannot estimate whether its application in the 2019 grc or future grc applications will result in full recovery of costs. we discuss this further in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 44 in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. in september 2018, the governor of california signed into law sb 901, which includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain wildfire risks relevant to consumers and utilities and guidelines for the cpuc to determine whether utilities acted reasonably in order to recover costs related to wildfires. among other things, sb 901 also contains provisions for utility issuance of recovery bonds with respect to certain wildfire costs, subject to cpuc approval. sb 901 did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability on a utility (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire . we are unable to predict how the cpuc will apply sb 901 and its impact on the california utilities' ability to recover certain costs and expenses in cases where the california utilities' equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, and specifically in the context of the application of inverse condemnation. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over native american tribal land held in trust by the federal government. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs or, in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire, could require us to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, difficulties in renewing rights-of-way and other property rights, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be adversely affected. successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include: the rates and rate design used to charge to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase, construct or enter into other arrangements with generating facilities; our ability to shut down power for safety reasons, including potentially dangerous wildfire conditions; general safety; accounting and income tax matters, including changes in tax law; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating and other facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; 45 the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these and other operations that may be recovered from customers. extreme weather conditions, changing weather patterns and population growth in areas of the state of california in environments with historically higher risk of wildfires could materially affect the california utilities' and sempra energy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. frequent and more severe drought conditions, unseasonably warm temperatures and stronger winds have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators. this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories and/or catastrophic destruction of third party property for which sdg&amp;e or socalgas may be liable and unable to recover from ratepayers or may have inadequate insurance coverage. sb 901, signed into law in 2018, includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain wildfire risks relevant to consumers and utilities and guidelines for the cpuc to determine whether utilities acted reasonably in order to recover costs related to wildfires. however, in the event of a significant wildfire involving sdg&amp;e equipment, sb 901 may not be sufficient to enable timely access to capital necessary to address, in whole or in part, inverse condemnation liabilities, or could result in the inability to pass such liabilities through to customers even if sdg&amp;e complies with its wildfire mitigation plans. in addition to these changing environmental conditions, the state of california has been subject to housing shortages such that certain local land use policies and forestry management practices have been relaxed in certain cases to allow for the construction and development of residential and commercial projects in high risk fire areas that may not have the infrastructure or contingency plans necessary to address such risk. in addition, severe weather conditions could result in delays and/or cost increases to our capital projects. severe rainstorms and associated high winds in our service territories, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, flooding caused by rising sea levels could damage the california utilities' facilities, including gas and electric transmission and distribution assets. the california utilities could incur substantial costs to repair or replace these facilities, restore service, or compensate customers and other third parties for damages or injuries. events or conditions caused by climate change could have a greater impact on the california utilities' operations than the california utilities currently anticipate. if the cpuc fails to adjust the california utilities' rates to reflect the impact of events or conditions caused by climate change or if a major fire is determined to be caused by our equipment, sempra energy's and the california utilities' business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's equipment, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be a cause of one or more fires, the utility could be held strictly liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase in the number and size of wildfires, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates, which was the result in a decision by the cpuc denying sdg&amp;e's recovery of costs for the 2007 wildfires, could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates the increased costs of insurance or the costs of any uninsured losses. 46 the california utilities are subject to risks arising from the operation and improvement of their electricity and natural gas infrastructure and information technology systems, which, if they materialize, could adversely affect sempra energy's and the california utilities' financial results. the california utilities own and operate electric transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage facilities, which are, in many cases, interconnected and/or managed by information technology systems. the california utilities undertake substantial capital investment projects to construct, replace, improve and upgrade these facilities and systems, but while these capital investment projects are in process and even once completed, there is a risk of, among other things, potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure and information technology systems, human error in operations or maintenance, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, as discussed above, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. additional risks associated with the ability of the california utilities to safely and reliably operate, maintain, improve and upgrade their facilities and systems, many of which are beyond the california utilities' control, include: challenges associated with meeting customer demand for electricity and/or natural gas that results in customer curtailments, controlled/uncontrolled gas outages, gas surges back into homes, serious personal injury or loss of life; a prolonged statewide electrical black-out that results in damage to the california utilities' equipment or damage to property owned by customers or other third parties; inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to a catastrophic event that could lead to public or employee harm or extended outages; severe weather events such as storms, tornadoes, floods, drought, earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, pandemics, solar events, electromagnetic events or other natural disasters; the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water or soil, including, for example, gas leaks from natural gas storage facilities; and attacks by third parties, including cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or war. the occurrence of any of these events could affect demand for electricity or natural gas; cause unplanned outages; damage the california utilities' assets and/or operations; damage the assets and/or operations of third parties on which the california utilities rely; damage property owned by customers or others; and cause personal injury or death. as a result, the california utilities could incur costs to purchase replacement power, to repair assets and restore service, and to compensate third parties. any such events could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and mitigating local community environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and emissions mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance or may exceed insurance coverage. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county, california. ss25 is one of more than 100 injection-and-withdrawal wells at the storage facility. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, and in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to directives by the dph and orders by the la superior court, socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it , at significant cost to socalgas. these programs ended in july 2016. in may 2016, the dph issued a directive that socalgas additionally professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five-mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and experienced symptoms from the leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts have been significant and may increase, and we may be subject to potentially significant damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs. to the extent any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of 47 applicable policy limits), or if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. civil and criminal litigation as of february 21, 2019, 393 lawsuits, including approximately 48,000 plaintiffs, are pending against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. three complaints have also been filed by public entities, including the california attorney general and the county of los angeles. these complaints seek various remedies, including injunctive relief, abatement of the public nuisance, civil penalties, payment of the cost of a longitudinal health study and money damages, as well as punitive damages and attorneys' fees. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. in august 2018, socalgas entered into an agreement to settle these public entity actions, which was approved by the la superior court in february 2019. these various lawsuits have been coordinated before a single court and will be managed under master complaints. additionally, a misdemeanor criminal complaint was filed by the la county district attorney's office, as to which socalgas entered a settlement that was approved by the la superior court but is subject to appeal by certain residents. in addition, a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws was filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers and directors in the sdca. this complaint was dismissed by the court in march 2018, and in december 2018, the court declined to reconsider its order. for a more detailed description of the civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the costs of defending against the civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with these investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas storage operations and regulatory proceedings natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. as a result of the leak, beginning october 24, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor of the state of california, and sb 380, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. the order establishing the scope of the proceeding expressly excludes issues with respect to air quality, public health, causation, culpability or cost responsibility regarding the leak. following a comprehensive safety review and authorization by doggr and the cpuc's executive director, socalgas resumed limited injection operations in july 2017. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility began in 2017 and continued in 2018 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. in january 2019, the cpuc concluded phase 1 of the proceeding initiated in february 2017 by establishing a framework for the hydraulic, production cost and economic modeling assumptions for the potential reduction in usage or elimination of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. phase 2 of the proceeding began in the first quarter of 2019 and will evaluate the impacts of reducing or eliminating the usage of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility using the established framework and models. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value , it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2018, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $724 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. governmental investigations, orders and additional regulation 48 various governmental agencies, including doe, doggr, dph, scaqmd, carb, los angeles regional water quality control board, california division of occupational safety and health, cpuc, phmsa, epa, los angeles county district attorney's office and california attorney general's office, have investigated or are investigating this incident. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the root cause analysis is ongoing, and its timing is under the control of blade energy partners, doggr and the cpuc. in march 2016, the carb issued its recommended approach to achieve full mitigation of the emissions from the leak, and in october 2016, issued its report concluding that socalgas should mitigate 109,000 metric tons of methane to fully mitigate the ghg impacts of the leak. this mitigation will be achieved through a mitigation agreement socalgas has entered in connection with its settlement of public entity complaints. for a more detailed description of the settlement, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb have each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr has issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, may be scheduled, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. through december 31, 2018, we have received $566 million of insurance proceeds for portions of control-of-well expenses, lost gas, temporary relocation, and other costs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining additional recovery or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. at december 31, 2018, socalgas estimates that its costs related to the leak are $1,055 million , which includes $1,027 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, costs not included in the cost estimate of $1,055 million could be material. as described in civil and criminal litigation above, the actions against us seek compensatory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $1,055 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs. the recorded amounts above also do not include costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directive, future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate of $1,055 million does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy through december 31, 2018 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operation s. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. 49 pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' plan for implementing psep and established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. various psep-related proceedings are regularly pending before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests, which are often challenged by intervening parties. these proceedings are described in more detail in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs. from 2011 through 2018, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested approximately $1.5 billion and $372 million , respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2018, socalgas has received approval for recovery of $33 million . if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation and the degree of culpability. the cpuc previously implemented both electric and gas safety enforcement programs whereby electric and gas utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to be in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of charges independent of consumption volume and reforms to reduce nem rate subsidies, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric residential rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places a higher rate burden on customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation (primarily solar installations). under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage (wholesale rates apply only if a customer's annual generation exceeds their annual consumption). under this structure, nem customers do not pay their proportionate share of the cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the unpaid nem costs are subsidized by customers not participating in nem. accordingly, as higher electric-use residential customers switch to nem and self-generate energy, the burden on the remaining customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. 50 sdg&amp;e implemented a successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the original nem program. the successor nem tariff requires nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary and appropriate. in a january 2016 decision, the cpuc committed to revisit the nem successor tariff and the adequacy of its nem reforms, and we expect the review to begin in the second half of 2019. the status of broader rate reform was established in july 2015, when the cpuc adopted a decision that provides a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded tou rates and implemented a super-user electric surcharge for usage that exceeds the baseline amount of energy used by customers by approximately 400 percent. the decision is being implemented over a five-year period from 2015 to 2020. the decision should result in relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020 (but it also sets certain conditions for the implementation of a fixed charge), after the initial reforms are implemented. we believe the establishment of a charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers. distributed energy resources and energy efficiency initiatives could generally reduce delivered volumes, increasing the importance of a fixed charge. in addition, the continuing increase of solar installations and other forms of self-generation adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system and could increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could lead to the disallowance of recovery for our costs, including power procurement costs, operating or capital costs, or the imposition of fines and penalties. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. utility customers could also receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city of san diego and other municipalities, are considering or implementing a cca, which could result in the departure of more than half of sdg&amp;e's bundled load. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could be borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. if adequate mechanisms are not maintained to ensure compliance with state law, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas and natural gas storage used in california to generate electricity has increasingly been the subject of political and public scrutiny, including a desire by some to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source. 51 california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include: the potential release of a radioactive material including from a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami that could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if radioactive material is released including as a result of such failure, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains ndts for providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to ndt funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. depending on how the irs or the u.s. department of treasury ultimately interprets or alters regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified ndt, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for spent fuel management while edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of spent fuel management costs in litigation against, or in settlements with, the doe. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs, which are costs that may be paid for or reimbursed from a qualified trust fund. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is awaiting the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs incurred in 2017 and subsequent years. until the doe litigation is resolved and/or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our businesses other than the california utilities business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng liquefaction, marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required 52 to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements; negotiation of satisfactory lng offtake and jv agreements; negotiation of supply, natural gas and lng sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements and ppas; timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations; timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction; and obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project. successful completion of a project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems; construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; work stoppages; failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way; equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases; adverse weather conditions; environmental and geological conditions; litigation; and unsettled property rights. if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of liquefaction, regasification and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt liquefaction, generation, regasification, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, cameron lng jv is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. if the estimated construction, financing and other project costs for the facility exceed our contingency associated with the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to make additional, unexpected cash contributions. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance is provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $3.9 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to cameron lng jv's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.9 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, severe weather events, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could 53 face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. based on a number of factors, we believe it is reasonable to expect that cameron lng jv will start generating earnings in the middle of 2019. these factors include, among others, the terms of the settlement agreement entered into in december 2017 with the epc contractor to settle certain contractor's claims, the epc contractor's progress to date, the current commissioning activities, the remaining work left to be performed, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. the inability to complete the project in accordance with the current schedule, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. for additional discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, two brownfield projects at our existing eca regasification facility in baja california, mexico (a mid-scale and large-scale project) and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains at the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all these projects is the risk that global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). sempra lng &amp; midstream is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project near port arthur, texas and is in discussions with the co-owners of cameron lng jv regarding the potential expansion of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. in addition, sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova are jointly developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca regasification facility in mexico. in june 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream selected bechtel as the epc contractor for the proposed port arthur liquefaction project. bechtel is to perform the engineering, execution planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for the project. the current arrangement with bechtel does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in december 2018, polish oil &amp; gas company and port arthur lng entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 mtpa of lng per year from the port arthur lng liquefaction project. this sale and purchase agreement is subject to conditions precedent, including our positive final investment decision for the port arthur liquefaction project. in november 2018, sempra energy and total s.a. entered into an mou that provides a framework for cooperation for the development of the potential eca liquefaction-export project and the potential cameron lng expansion project, but does not obligate any of the parties to enter into definitive agreements or participate in the project. the mou contemplates total s.a. potentially contracting for up to approximately 9 mtpa of lng offtake across these two development projects and provides total s.a. the option to acquire an equity interest in the proposed eca lng liquefaction facility project, though the ultimate participation by total s.a. remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. in june 2018, we selected a technipfmc plc and kiewit corporation partnership as the epc contractor for the first phase of the potential eca liquefaction-export project (eca lng phase1). the technipfmc-kiewit partnership is to perform the engineering, planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for eca lng phase 1. the current arrangement with the technipfmc-kiewit partnership does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in november 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova signed heads of agreements with affiliates of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. for eca lng phase 1. we expect eca lng phase 1 to be a single train liquefaction facility located within the existing lng receipt terminal site with a capacity of approximately 2.4 mtpa of lng for export to global markets. each heads of agreement for eca lng phase 1 contemplates the parties negotiating definitive 20-year lng sales and 54 purchase agreements for the purchase of approximately 0.8 mtpa of lng from the eca lng facility, but does not obligate the parties to ultimately execute any agreements or participate in the project. the ultimate participation of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. in the potential eca lng project as contemplated by the heads of agreements remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. the development of the eca lng phase 1 and phase 2 projects is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including obtaining binding customer commitments, the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive epc contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. we expect that discussions on the potential expansion will continue among all the cameron lng jv members. there can be no assurance that a mutually agreeable expansion structure will be agreed to unanimously by the cameron lng jv members, which if not accomplished in a timely manner, could materially and adversely impact the development of the expansion project. in light of this, we are unable to predict whether or when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains. any decisions by sempra energy or our potential counterparties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the potential development (or expansion) of our liquefaction projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including equity acquisition and governance agreements, natural gas supply and transportation agreements, lng sale and purchase agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca facility in mexico is subject to on-going land and permit disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, eca has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. domestic and international hydraulic fracturing operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties that could increase the costs of doing business, impose additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect production of lng and reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. hydraulic fracturing operations in the u.s. and outside the u.s. face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to their operations. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies, including the epa and the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior, have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the 55 safe drinking water act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. in addition, hydraulic fracturing operations may also be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by laws, policies and regulations of the u.s. affecting foreign trade and taxation, including u.s. trade sanctions. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state, local or international laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three-train cameron lng facility currently under construction. our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions; seasonality; changes in supply and demand; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; commodity production levels; actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas; federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation; natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and expropriation of assets by foreign countries. the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates and over independent system operators and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. 56 increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified development and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, it is likely that most of these projects will not be completed. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to revise or replace international trade agreements, such as nafta. in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co. ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be 57 required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. in addition, we may develop and/or own some projects with other equity owners and, therefore, we may not control all material decisions with respect to those projects, as is the case with the cameron lng jv project. to the extent that there is disagreement amongst the project equity owners with respect to certain decisions affecting such a project, then the development, construction or operation of such project may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. such a circumstance could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, result of operations and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng regasification terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. if we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our eca lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the eca lng regasification terminal into an lng liquefaction export facility may be hindered or halted by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation assets, electricity generation facilities, and lng, ethane and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations; governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses; 58 adverse changes in market conditions and inadequate enforcement of regulations; high rates of inflation; volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below; foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law; changes in government policies or personnel; trade restrictions; limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries; permitting and regulatory compliance; changes in labor supply and labor relations; adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions; energy policy reform that may result in adverse changes to and/or difficulty in enforcing existing contracts; expropriation of assets; destruction of property or assets; adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate; general political, social, economic and business conditions; compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws; valuation of goodwill; and theft of assets. our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. risks related to our interest in oncor sempra energy could incur substantial tax liabilities if efh's 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh is deemed to be taxable. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016 efh distributed all the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 of the irc (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment). in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. in connection with the signing and closing of the merger, efh sought and received a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs and sempra energy and efh received tax opinions from their respective counsel that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling is generally binding on the irs and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh, now sempra texas holdings corp. and a subsidiary of sempra energy. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, sempra energy, through its ownership of sempra texas holdings corp., could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value associated with our indirect investment in oncor and could have a material adverse effect on the results of 59 operations, financial condition and/or prospects of sempra energy and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, sempra texas holdings corp. has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. failure by oncor to successfully execute its business strategy and objectives may materially adversely affect sempra energy's future results and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including several objectives that are capital intensive, and to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry. see below under oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all and the merger may materially adversely affect sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and prospects of sempra energy and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we may issue a significant amount of equity securities to reduce our indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger, which may dilute the economic and voting interests of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock and preferred stock. in 2018, we issued a significant amount of equity securities to raise proceeds to fund a significant portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs and to reduce our indebtedness. as of february 26, 2019, 16,906,185 shares remain subject to future settlement under forward sale agreements, which may be settled on one or more dates specified by us occurring no later than december 15, 2019, which is the final settlement date under the agreements. although we expect to settle the forward sale agreements entirely by the physical delivery of shares of our common stock in exchange for cash proceeds, we may, subject to certain conditions, elect cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements. the forward sale agreements are also subject to acceleration by the forward purchasers upon the occurrence of certain events. in addition, in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series a (the series a preferred stock ), and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our 6.75% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series b (the series b preferred stock ), both of which we expect will ultimately convert into common stock. some of these equity issuances, including common stock issued upon settlement of the forward sale agreements, will likely occur in connection with the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness we have incurred in connection with the merger. see below under we incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. although the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we may in fact issue fewer shares of any equity securities than anticipated, the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and settlement of the forward sale agreements) will have the effect, and the issuance of additional equity securities may have the effect, of diluting the economic and voting interests of our common shareholders. in addition, the issuance of additional shares of common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and settlement of the forward sale agreements) without a commensurate increase in our consolidated earnings would dilute, and the issuance of additional equity securities could dilute, our earnings per common share. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. we incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. we incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. in january 2018, we issued $5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed- and variable-rate notes in various series that mature between 2019 and 2048, and we issued approximately $2.6 billion of commercial paper in february 2018 and march 2018 (the oncor merger commercial paper) to fund a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. we have since repaid the oncor merger commercial paper with proceeds from equity issuances and newly issued commercial paper. our debt service obligations resulting from our aggregate indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and prospects by, among other things: making it more difficult and/or costly for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic and industry conditions, because a decrease in revenues or increase in costs could cause cash flow from operations to be insufficient to make scheduled debt service payments; limiting our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate and, consequently, put us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; 60 requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; making it more difficult for us to raise capital to fund working capital, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, pursue strategic initiatives or for other purposes; imposing higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our current or future borrowings subject to variable rates of interest; requiring that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might include, for example, limitations on additional borrowings; and imposing specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibitions or limitations on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. the merger substantially increased our debt service obligations and in light of the ring-fencing arrangements described below under certain ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor, there can be no assurance that we will receive any cash from oncor to assist us in servicing our indebtedness, paying dividends on our common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock or meeting our other cash needs, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. we may seek to reduce this indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, other equity securities, and the settlement of sales of our common stock pursuant to our forward sale agreements, cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales, which may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. however, the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities on terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness, should we elect to do so, to a level that permits us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. certain ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. various ring-fencing measures are in place to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence creates both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and sempra energy and its affiliates and subsidiaries, on the other hand. in accordance with the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments we made in connection with the merger, we and oncor are subject to various restrictions, including, among others: the board of directors of oncor will consist of thirteen members, seven of which will be independent directors in all material respects under the rules of the new york stock exchange in relation to sempra energy and its subsidiaries and affiliated entities and any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings (and those directors must have no material relationship with sempra energy or its affiliates, or any other entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, currently or within the previous 10 years), two of which will be designated by sempra energy, two of which will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, which is an investment vehicle owned by third parties unaffiliated with sempra energy and that owns approximately 19.75 percent of the outstanding membership interests in oncor, and two of which will be current or former officers of oncor; a majority of the independent directors of oncor must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or o&amp;m in such budget is more than a 10-percent increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts of such expenditures in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable; oncor shall make minimum aggregate capital expenditures equal to at least $7.5 billion over the period from january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2022 (subject to certain possible adjustments); oncor may not pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements; 61 at all times, oncor will remain in compliance with the debt-to-equity ratio established by the puct from time to time for ratemaking purposes, and oncor will not pay dividends or other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct; if the credit rating on oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; without the prior approval of the puct, neither sempra energy nor any of its affiliates (excluding oncor) will incur, guarantee or pledge assets in respect of any indebtedness that is dependent on the revenues of oncor in more than a proportionate degree than the other revenues of sempra energy or on the stock of oncor, and there will be no debt at sempra texas holdings corp. or sempra texas intermediate holding company llc at any time; neither oncor nor oncor holdings will lend money to or borrow money from sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor, and neither oncor holdings nor oncor will share credit facilities with sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor; oncor will not seek recovery in rates of any expenses or liabilities related to efh's bankruptcy, or (1) any tax liabilities resulting from efh's spinoff of its former subsidiary texas competitive electric holdings company llc, (2) any asbestos claims relating to non-oncor operations of efh or (3) any make-whole claims by holders of debt securities issued by efh or efih, and sempra energy was required to and has filed with the puct a plan providing for the extinguishment of the liabilities described in items (1) through (3) above, which protects oncor from any harm; there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from sempra energy, including a requirement that dealings between oncor, oncor holdings and their subsidiaries and sempra energy, any of sempra energy's other affiliates or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor, must be on an arm's-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions, separate recordkeeping requirements and a prohibition on pledging oncor assets or stock for any entity other than oncor; no transaction costs or transition costs related to the merger (excluding oncor employee time) will be borne by oncor's customers nor included in oncor's rates; sempra energy will continue to hold indirectly at least 51 percent of the ownership interests in oncor holdings and oncor for at least five years following the closing of the merger, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the puct; and oncor will provide bill credits to customers in an amount equal to 90 percent of any interest rate savings achieved due to any improvement in its credit ratings or market spreads compared to those as of june 30, 2017 until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate case filed after puct docket no. 46957 (except that savings will not be included in credits if already realized in rates); and one year after the merger, oncor will present a merger-synergy savings analysis to the puct and provide bill credits to its customers equal to 90 percent of any synergy savings until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate proceeding after puct docket no. 46957, at which time any total synergy savings shall be reflected in oncor's rates. on september 7, 2018, oncor filed its first semi-annual interest rate savings compliance report with the puct and began accruing a bill credit upon the issuance of its new debt in august 2018. as a result of the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments, we do not control oncor holdings or oncor, and we have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. we have limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor board of directors, which are controlled by independent directors. the existence of the ring-fencing measures and other limitations may increase our costs of financing. further, the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent that they take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of sempra energy may be materially adversely affected. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect us. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. 62 oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may be required to make additional investments in oncor. similarly, if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may be required to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. settlement provisions contained in our equity forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. the counterparties to the january forward sale agreements and the july forward sale agreements (collectively, the forward purchasers) have the right to accelerate their respective forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and require us to physically settle such forward sale agreements on a date specified by the forward purchasers if: they are unable to establish, maintain or unwind their hedge position with respect to the forward sale agreements; they determine that they are unable to, or it is commercially impracticable for them to, continue to borrow a number of shares of our common stock equal to the number of shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements or that, with respect to borrowing such number of shares of our common stock, they would incur a rate that is greater than the borrow cost specified in the forward sale agreements, subject to a prior notice requirement; we declare or pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock in an amount in excess of amounts, or at a time before, those prescribed by the forward sale agreements or declare or pay certain other types of dividends or distributions on shares of our common stock; an event is announced that, if consummated, would result in an extraordinary event (including certain mergers and tender offers, our nationalization, our insolvency and the delisting of the shares of our common stock); an ownership event (as such term is defined in the forward sale agreements) occurs; or certain other events of default, termination events or other specified events occur, including, among other things, a change in law. the forward purchasers' decision to exercise their right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and to require us to settle the forward sale agreements will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the forward sale agreements irrespective of our capital needs, which would result in dilution to our eps and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our mandatory convertible preferred stock, any other equity that we may issue and our debt securities. the forward sale agreements provide for settlement on a settlement date or dates to be specified at our discretion, but which we expect to occur in one or more additional settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019. subject to the provisions of the forward sale agreements, delivery of our shares upon physical or net share settlement of the forward sale agreements will result in dilution to our eps and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, mandatory convertible preferred stock and any other equity that we may issue. we may elect, subject to certain conditions, cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements if we conclude that it is in our interest to do so. for example, we may conclude that it is in our interest to cash settle or net share settle the forward sale agreements if we otherwise have no current use for all or a portion of the net proceeds due upon physical settlement of the forward sale agreements. if we elect to cash or net share settle all or a portion of the shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements, we would expect the forward purchasers or one of their affiliates to purchase the number of shares necessary, based on the number of shares with respect to which we have elected cash or net share settlement, in order to satisfy their obligation to return the shares of our common stock they had borrowed in connection with sales of our common stock related to each underlying stock offering and, if applicable in connection with net share settlement, to deliver shares of our common stock to us or take into account shares of our common stock to be delivered by us, as applicable. the purchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers or their affiliates to unwind the forward purchasers' hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase over time, thereby increasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that we would owe to the forward purchasers upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements, or decreasing the amount of cash 63 or the number of shares of our common stock that the forward purchasers owe us upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements. dividend requirements associated with the mandatory convertible preferred stock sempra energy issued in connection with the merger subject us to certain risks. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on our series a preferred stock and our series b preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and investments to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock (i) have not been declared and paid, or (ii) have been declared but a sum of cash or number of shares of our common stock sufficient for payment thereof has not been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date, in each case, for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other classes or series of our preferred stock ranking equally with the mandatory convertible preferred stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up and having similar voting rights, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20 -percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. as a result of ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments, we account for our indirect, 100-percent ownership interest in oncor holdings, which owns an 80.25 percent interest in oncor, as an equity method investment, which investment is $9,652 million at december 31, 2018. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is $1,271 million at december 31, 2018 . at december 31, 2018 , sempra renewables had investments totaling $291 million in several jvs to operate wind generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in a jv with a subsidiary of transcanada to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50 -percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california , and a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. at december 31, 2018 , these various jv investments by sempra mexico totaled $747 million . sempra energy has an equity method investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership which is in the process of being dissolved and for which sempra energy is subject to certain indemnities as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. any adverse resolution of matters associated with our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra energy committed to make a capital contribution to oncor for oncor to fund its acquisition of infrareit, which acquisition we expect will close in mid-2019. we estimate the capital contribution to be $1,025 million, excluding our share of the approximately $40 million for a management agreement termination fee, as well as other customary transaction costs incurred by infrareit that would be borne by oncor as part of the acquisition. the capital contribution is contingent on the satisfaction of customary conditions, including the substantially simultaneous closing of the transactions contemplated by the infrareit merger agreement. we discuss these transactions in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream have provided guarantees related to jv financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to jvs in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 6 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the 64 businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 5, 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2018, sempra energy had approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 3.9 percent of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. md&amp;a critical accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 128 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the current u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements, such as nafta, and u.s. immigration policy by reviewing various options, including tariffs, for funding new mexico-u.s. border security infrastructure. for example, in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets that could materially 38 adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. in addition, if nafta is replaced or the u.s. withdraws from the agreement, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our plan to divest certain of our assets as part of our capital rotation plan, our north american business strategy or our cost reduction efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. in june 2018, we announced that our board of directors approved a plan to divest all our u.s. solar and wind assets and certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (collectively, the non-utility u.s. assets). additionally, in january 2019, we announced that our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses. while we have completed the sale of a substantial portion of the non-utility u.s. assets and expect to complete the sale of the remaining non-utility u.s. assets in the second quarter of 2019, the pending sale will depend on the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions. while we expect to complete the sale of our south american businesses by the end of 2019, the planned sale will depend on several factors that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, market conditions, industry trends, consent rights or other rights granted to or held by third parties and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms. further, there can be no assurance that the completed sales, or the pending and planned sales, if completed, will result in additional value to our shareholders, or that we will be able to redeploy any capital that we obtain from such sales in a way that would result in additional value to our shareholders. if we do not successfully manage our current capital rotation plan, our north american business strategy or our cost reduction efforts, or any other such activities that we may initiate in the future, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. while we strive to maintain constructive, ongoing communications with all our shareholders, and welcome their views and opinions with the goal of enhancing value for all our shareholders, activist shareholders may, from time to time, engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management. responding to proposals by activist shareholders, including in connection with a proxy contest instituted by shareholders, would require us to incur significant legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses (in the case of a proxy contest) and administrative and associated costs and require significant time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategy. for example, on june 11, 2018, elliott associates, l.p. and elliott international, l.p. (collectively, elliott) and bluescape resources company llc (bluescape), collectively holders of an approximately 4.9-percent economic interest in our outstanding common stock as of such date, delivered a letter and accompanying presentation to our board of directors seeking collaboration with them and management to nominate six new directors identified by elliott and bluescape and establish a committee of the board of directors to conduct portfolio and operational reviews of our business. on september 18, 2018, we announced that we entered into a cooperation agreement with elliott, bluescape and cove key management, lp. under the cooperation agreement, each party has agreed to certain customary standstill restrictions until december 31, 2019, which is subject to extension until september 30, 2020 under certain circumstances. there can be no assurance that the cooperation agreement will be extended and any failure to secure an extension or a termination of the agreement without a resolution could negatively impact the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and other securities. in addition, upon termination of the cooperation agreement, elliott, bluescape and/or cove key management, lp may, among other things, attempt to effect additional significant changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management, which may disrupt our operations by requiring significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. we discuss the cooperation agreement in md&amp;a - factors influencing future performance. any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control, our ability to execute on our strategy, or changes to the composition of our board of directors or senior management team arising from proposals by activist shareholders or a proxy contest could lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or instability that may be exploited by our competitors and/or other activist shareholders, result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives or attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business and operating results. we may choose to initiate, or may become subject to, litigation as a result of proposals by activist shareholders or proxy contests or matters relating thereto, which would serve as a further distraction to our board of directors and management and could require us to incur significant additional costs. 39 actions such as those described above could cause significant fluctuations in the trading prices of our common stock and our preferred stock, based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. the tcja may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the tcja significantly changed the irc, including taxation of u.s. corporations by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, altering the expensing of capital expenditures, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign entities at the time of enactment and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. certain aspects of the legislation are subject to interpretation and will require implementing regulations by the u.s. department of the treasury, as well as state tax authorities. the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of this legislation will be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, the ferc or state public utility commissions may respond to the tcja, we do expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, will be negatively impacted as a result of an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our domestic utility subsidiaries due to the decrease in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100-percent expensing of capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will reduce any potential adverse impact from these provisions of the tcja. in addition, although we are not currently expecting the deductibility of our interest costs to affect future earnings based on our method of allocation across our businesses, the interest deduction limitation under the tcja is subject to potential additional guidance or interpretation from the u.s. department of the treasury, and there can be no assurance that any such additional guidance will not impact our current assessment. it is also uncertain whether additional avenues will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of this legislation. we believe that these strategies, to the extent available and if successfully applied, could lessen any such negative impacts on us, although there can be no assurance in this regard. in addition, adoption of the tcja by state tax authorities, additional interpretations, regulations, amendments or technical corrections could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we discuss the effects of the tcja further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a results of operations. risks related to all sempra energy businesses severe weather conditions, natural disasters, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities; electric transmission and distribution; power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation; marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; and nuclear power facilities, nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities (through our 20-percent minority interest in songs, which is currently being decommissioned). such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect 40 our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other ghg; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance, in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below under risks related to the california utilities insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive, or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects, as well as the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or requirements or in their interpretation or implementation. in recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes on the federal, state and local levels. these changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. these changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs. our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. all our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; and electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed, or approvals reversed or modified in litigation or otherwise. in addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. socalgas' franchise agreements with los angeles county and the city of los angeles, where the aliso canyon 41 natural gas storage facility is located, are due to expire in 2023 and 2019, respectively. sdg&amp;e's franchise agreement with the city of san diego is due to expire in 2021. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy projects and properties; regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our jvs, are subject to laws and regulations that have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to power generation facilities. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as potential state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. the implementation of recent and proposed california legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. similarly, sb 350 requires all load-serving entities, including sdg&amp;e, to file integrated resource plans that are intended to ultimately enable the electric sector to achieve reductions in ghg emissions of 40 percent compared to 1990 levels by 2030. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide further discussion of these matters in item 7. md&amp;a and in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings, including in connection with the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility natural gas leak. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. the uncertainties 42 inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. new business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present, among other things, a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. additionally, we often rely on third party vendors to deploy new business technologies and maintain, modify and update our systems, including systems that manage sensitive information. these third parties could fail to establish adequate risk management and information security measures to protect our systems and information. while our computer systems have been, and will continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, including investing in risk management and information security measures to protect our systems. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated cyber risks. despite our best efforts, our businesses may not be fully insulated from cyber-attacks and system disruptions. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas, ethane, lng, lpg or propane pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial and reputational loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. 43 in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. sempra energy maintains cyber liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in scope and subject to exceptions, conditions and coverage limitations and may not cover any or even a substantial portion of the costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised and there is no guarantee that the insurance that we do maintain will continue to be available at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates the california utilities': conditions of service; sales of securities ; rates of return; capital structure; rates of depreciation; and long-term resource procurement . the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility operations, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms and performance-based regulation in notes 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment, as well as settlements. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or denying recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards, authorizations for less than full recovery or rejection of their settlements may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc decision tree framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of a portion of these historical costs, which could adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the cpuc now incorporates a risk-based decision-making framework in its review of grc applications for major natural gas and electric utilities in california. we cannot estimate whether its application in the 2019 grc or future grc applications will result in full recovery of costs. we discuss this further in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 44 in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. in september 2018, the governor of california signed into law sb 901, which includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain wildfire risks relevant to consumers and utilities and guidelines for the cpuc to determine whether utilities acted reasonably in order to recover costs related to wildfires. among other things, sb 901 also contains provisions for utility issuance of recovery bonds with respect to certain wildfire costs, subject to cpuc approval. sb 901 did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability on a utility (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire . we are unable to predict how the cpuc will apply sb 901 and its impact on the california utilities' ability to recover certain costs and expenses in cases where the california utilities' equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, and specifically in the context of the application of inverse condemnation. the construction and expansion of the california utilities' natural gas pipelines, socalgas' storage facilities and sdg&amp;e's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over native american tribal land held in trust by the federal government. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs or, in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire, could require us to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. if there are delays in obtaining these approvals, failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, difficulties in renewing rights-of-way and other property rights, or failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be adversely affected. successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. in the event that one or more of these projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities. the california utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. operations that may be influenced by these groups include: the rates and rate design used to charge to our customers; our ability to site and construct new facilities; our ability to purchase, construct or enter into other arrangements with generating facilities; our ability to shut down power for safety reasons, including potentially dangerous wildfire conditions; general safety; accounting and income tax matters, including changes in tax law; transactions between affiliates; the installation of environmental emission controls equipment; our ability to decommission generating and other facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs; our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs; 45 the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and the amount of costs associated with these and other operations that may be recovered from customers. extreme weather conditions, changing weather patterns and population growth in areas of the state of california in environments with historically higher risk of wildfires could materially affect the california utilities' and sempra energy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. frequent and more severe drought conditions, unseasonably warm temperatures and stronger winds have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators. this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories and/or catastrophic destruction of third party property for which sdg&amp;e or socalgas may be liable and unable to recover from ratepayers or may have inadequate insurance coverage. sb 901, signed into law in 2018, includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain wildfire risks relevant to consumers and utilities and guidelines for the cpuc to determine whether utilities acted reasonably in order to recover costs related to wildfires. however, in the event of a significant wildfire involving sdg&amp;e equipment, sb 901 may not be sufficient to enable timely access to capital necessary to address, in whole or in part, inverse condemnation liabilities, or could result in the inability to pass such liabilities through to customers even if sdg&amp;e complies with its wildfire mitigation plans. in addition to these changing environmental conditions, the state of california has been subject to housing shortages such that certain local land use policies and forestry management practices have been relaxed in certain cases to allow for the construction and development of residential and commercial projects in high risk fire areas that may not have the infrastructure or contingency plans necessary to address such risk. in addition, severe weather conditions could result in delays and/or cost increases to our capital projects. severe rainstorms and associated high winds in our service territories, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, flooding caused by rising sea levels could damage the california utilities' facilities, including gas and electric transmission and distribution assets. the california utilities could incur substantial costs to repair or replace these facilities, restore service, or compensate customers and other third parties for damages or injuries. events or conditions caused by climate change could have a greater impact on the california utilities' operations than the california utilities currently anticipate. if the cpuc fails to adjust the california utilities' rates to reflect the impact of events or conditions caused by climate change or if a major fire is determined to be caused by our equipment, sempra energy's and the california utilities' business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. insurance coverage for future wildfires may be unobtainable, prohibitively expensive or insufficient to cover losses we may incur, and we may be unable to recover costs in excess of insurance through regulatory mechanisms. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur. uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's equipment, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be a cause of one or more fires, the utility could be held strictly liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase in the number and size of wildfires, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates, which was the result in a decision by the cpuc denying sdg&amp;e's recovery of costs for the 2007 wildfires, could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates the increased costs of insurance or the costs of any uninsured losses. 46 the california utilities are subject to risks arising from the operation and improvement of their electricity and natural gas infrastructure and information technology systems, which, if they materialize, could adversely affect sempra energy's and the california utilities' financial results. the california utilities own and operate electric transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas storage facilities, which are, in many cases, interconnected and/or managed by information technology systems. the california utilities undertake substantial capital investment projects to construct, replace, improve and upgrade these facilities and systems, but while these capital investment projects are in process and even once completed, there is a risk of, among other things, potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure and information technology systems, human error in operations or maintenance, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, as discussed above, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. additional risks associated with the ability of the california utilities to safely and reliably operate, maintain, improve and upgrade their facilities and systems, many of which are beyond the california utilities' control, include: challenges associated with meeting customer demand for electricity and/or natural gas that results in customer curtailments, controlled/uncontrolled gas outages, gas surges back into homes, serious personal injury or loss of life; a prolonged statewide electrical black-out that results in damage to the california utilities' equipment or damage to property owned by customers or other third parties; inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to a catastrophic event that could lead to public or employee harm or extended outages; severe weather events such as storms, tornadoes, floods, drought, earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, pandemics, solar events, electromagnetic events or other natural disasters; the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water or soil, including, for example, gas leaks from natural gas storage facilities; and attacks by third parties, including cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or war. the occurrence of any of these events could affect demand for electricity or natural gas; cause unplanned outages; damage the california utilities' assets and/or operations; damage the assets and/or operations of third parties on which the california utilities rely; damage property owned by customers or others; and cause personal injury or death. as a result, the california utilities could incur costs to purchase replacement power, to repair assets and restore service, and to compensate third parties. any such events could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and mitigating local community environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and emissions mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance or may exceed insurance coverage. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, located in the northern part of the san fernando valley in los angeles county, california. ss25 is one of more than 100 injection-and-withdrawal wells at the storage facility. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, and in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. local community mitigation efforts pursuant to directives by the dph and orders by the la superior court, socalgas provided temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who requested it , at significant cost to socalgas. these programs ended in july 2016. in may 2016, the dph issued a directive that socalgas additionally professionally clean (in accordance with the proposed protocol prepared by the dph) the homes of all residents located within the porter ranch neighborhood council boundary, or who participated in the relocation program, or who are located within a five-mile radius of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and experienced symptoms from the leak (the directive). socalgas disputes the directive, contending that it is invalid and unenforceable, and has filed a petition for writ of mandate to set aside the directive. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts have been significant and may increase, and we may be subject to potentially significant damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs. to the extent any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of 47 applicable policy limits), or if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. civil and criminal litigation as of february 21, 2019, 393 lawsuits, including approximately 48,000 plaintiffs, are pending against socalgas, some of which have also named sempra energy. five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. three complaints have also been filed by public entities, including the california attorney general and the county of los angeles. these complaints seek various remedies, including injunctive relief, abatement of the public nuisance, civil penalties, payment of the cost of a longitudinal health study and money damages, as well as punitive damages and attorneys' fees. additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. in august 2018, socalgas entered into an agreement to settle these public entity actions, which was approved by the la superior court in february 2019. these various lawsuits have been coordinated before a single court and will be managed under master complaints. additionally, a misdemeanor criminal complaint was filed by the la county district attorney's office, as to which socalgas entered a settlement that was approved by the la superior court but is subject to appeal by certain residents. in addition, a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws was filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers and directors in the sdca. this complaint was dismissed by the court in march 2018, and in december 2018, the court declined to reconsider its order. for a more detailed description of the civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the costs of defending against the civil and criminal lawsuits, cooperating with these investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas storage operations and regulatory proceedings natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. as a result of the leak, beginning october 24, 2015, pursuant to orders by doggr and the governor of the state of california, and sb 380, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. in february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. the order establishing the scope of the proceeding expressly excludes issues with respect to air quality, public health, causation, culpability or cost responsibility regarding the leak. following a comprehensive safety review and authorization by doggr and the cpuc's executive director, socalgas resumed limited injection operations in july 2017. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility began in 2017 and continued in 2018 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. in january 2019, the cpuc concluded phase 1 of the proceeding initiated in february 2017 by establishing a framework for the hydraulic, production cost and economic modeling assumptions for the potential reduction in usage or elimination of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. phase 2 of the proceeding began in the first quarter of 2019 and will evaluate the impacts of reducing or eliminating the usage of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility using the established framework and models. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value , it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2018, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $724 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. governmental investigations, orders and additional regulation 48 various governmental agencies, including doe, doggr, dph, scaqmd, carb, los angeles regional water quality control board, california division of occupational safety and health, cpuc, phmsa, epa, los angeles county district attorney's office and california attorney general's office, have investigated or are investigating this incident. in january 2016, doggr and the cpuc selected blade energy partners to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the root cause analysis is ongoing, and its timing is under the control of blade energy partners, doggr and the cpuc. in march 2016, the carb issued its recommended approach to achieve full mitigation of the emissions from the leak, and in october 2016, issued its report concluding that socalgas should mitigate 109,000 metric tons of methane to fully mitigate the ghg impacts of the leak. this mitigation will be achieved through a mitigation agreement socalgas has entered in connection with its settlement of public entity complaints. for a more detailed description of the settlement, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. phmsa, doggr, scaqmd, epa and carb have each commenced separate rulemaking proceedings to adopt further regulations covering natural gas storage facilities and injection wells. doggr has issued new draft regulations for all storage fields in california, and in 2016, the california legislature enacted four separate bills providing for additional regulation of natural gas storage facilities. additional hearings in the california legislature, as well as with various other federal and state regulatory agencies, may be scheduled, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together provide between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. these policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. through december 31, 2018, we have received $566 million of insurance proceeds for portions of control-of-well expenses, lost gas, temporary relocation, and other costs. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining additional recovery or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. at december 31, 2018, socalgas estimates that its costs related to the leak are $1,055 million , which includes $1,027 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. in addition, costs not included in the cost estimate of $1,055 million could be material. as described in civil and criminal litigation above, the actions against us seek compensatory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $1,055 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs. the recorded amounts above also do not include costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directive, future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate of $1,055 million does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy through december 31, 2018 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operation s. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. 49 pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, sempra energy, including the california utilities, may incur incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. the california utilities filed implementation plans with the cpuc to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. in june 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' plan for implementing psep and established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. various psep-related proceedings are regularly pending before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests, which are often challenged by intervening parties. these proceedings are described in more detail in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs. from 2011 through 2018, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested approximately $1.5 billion and $372 million , respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2018, socalgas has received approval for recovery of $33 million . if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. in exercising this citation authority, the cpuc staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation and the degree of culpability. the cpuc previously implemented both electric and gas safety enforcement programs whereby electric and gas utilities may be cited by cpuc staff for violations of the cpuc's safety requirements or applicable federal standards. under each enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to be in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of charges independent of consumption volume and reforms to reduce nem rate subsidies, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric residential rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places a higher rate burden on customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation (primarily solar installations). under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage (wholesale rates apply only if a customer's annual generation exceeds their annual consumption). under this structure, nem customers do not pay their proportionate share of the cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the unpaid nem costs are subsidized by customers not participating in nem. accordingly, as higher electric-use residential customers switch to nem and self-generate energy, the burden on the remaining customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. 50 sdg&amp;e implemented a successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the original nem program. the successor nem tariff requires nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary and appropriate. in a january 2016 decision, the cpuc committed to revisit the nem successor tariff and the adequacy of its nem reforms, and we expect the review to begin in the second half of 2019. the status of broader rate reform was established in july 2015, when the cpuc adopted a decision that provides a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded tou rates and implemented a super-user electric surcharge for usage that exceeds the baseline amount of energy used by customers by approximately 400 percent. the decision is being implemented over a five-year period from 2015 to 2020. the decision should result in relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020 (but it also sets certain conditions for the implementation of a fixed charge), after the initial reforms are implemented. we believe the establishment of a charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers. distributed energy resources and energy efficiency initiatives could generally reduce delivered volumes, increasing the importance of a fixed charge. in addition, the continuing increase of solar installations and other forms of self-generation adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system and could increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could lead to the disallowance of recovery for our costs, including power procurement costs, operating or capital costs, or the imposition of fines and penalties. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. utility customers could also receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city of san diego and other municipalities, are considering or implementing a cca, which could result in the departure of more than half of sdg&amp;e's bundled load. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer serves this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could be borne by its remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. if adequate mechanisms are not maintained to ensure compliance with state law, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas and natural gas storage used in california to generate electricity has increasingly been the subject of political and public scrutiny, including a desire by some to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source. 51 california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20-percent ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. songs is subject to the jurisdiction of the nrc and the cpuc. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include: the potential release of a radioactive material including from a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami that could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. if radioactive material is released including as a result of such failure, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains ndts for providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to ndt funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. depending on how the irs or the u.s. department of treasury ultimately interprets or alters regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified ndt, sdg&amp;e may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for spent fuel management while edison and sdg&amp;e are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of spent fuel management costs in litigation against, or in settlements with, the doe. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs, which are costs that may be paid for or reimbursed from a qualified trust fund. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is awaiting the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs incurred in 2017 and subsequent years. until the doe litigation is resolved and/or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our businesses other than the california utilities business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng liquefaction, marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required 52 to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements; negotiation of satisfactory lng offtake and jv agreements; negotiation of supply, natural gas and lng sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements and ppas; timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations; timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction; and obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project. successful completion of a project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems; construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; work stoppages; failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way; equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases; adverse weather conditions; environmental and geological conditions; litigation; and unsettled property rights. if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of liquefaction, regasification and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt liquefaction, generation, regasification, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. with respect to our project to add lng export capability at the cameron lng facility, cameron lng jv is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. if the estimated construction, financing and other project costs for the facility exceed our contingency associated with the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to make additional, unexpected cash contributions. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance is provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $3.9 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to cameron lng jv's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.9 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, severe weather events, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could 53 face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. based on a number of factors, we believe it is reasonable to expect that cameron lng jv will start generating earnings in the middle of 2019. these factors include, among others, the terms of the settlement agreement entered into in december 2017 with the epc contractor to settle certain contractor's claims, the epc contractor's progress to date, the current commissioning activities, the remaining work left to be performed, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. the inability to complete the project in accordance with the current schedule, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. for additional discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other lng export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in port arthur, texas, two brownfield projects at our existing eca regasification facility in baja california, mexico (a mid-scale and large-scale project) and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains at the cameron liquefaction facility. each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. common to all these projects is the risk that global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). sempra lng &amp; midstream is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project near port arthur, texas and is in discussions with the co-owners of cameron lng jv regarding the potential expansion of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. in addition, sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova are jointly developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca regasification facility in mexico. in june 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream selected bechtel as the epc contractor for the proposed port arthur liquefaction project. bechtel is to perform the engineering, execution planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for the project. the current arrangement with bechtel does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in december 2018, polish oil &amp; gas company and port arthur lng entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 mtpa of lng per year from the port arthur lng liquefaction project. this sale and purchase agreement is subject to conditions precedent, including our positive final investment decision for the port arthur liquefaction project. in november 2018, sempra energy and total s.a. entered into an mou that provides a framework for cooperation for the development of the potential eca liquefaction-export project and the potential cameron lng expansion project, but does not obligate any of the parties to enter into definitive agreements or participate in the project. the mou contemplates total s.a. potentially contracting for up to approximately 9 mtpa of lng offtake across these two development projects and provides total s.a. the option to acquire an equity interest in the proposed eca lng liquefaction facility project, though the ultimate participation by total s.a. remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. in june 2018, we selected a technipfmc plc and kiewit corporation partnership as the epc contractor for the first phase of the potential eca liquefaction-export project (eca lng phase1). the technipfmc-kiewit partnership is to perform the engineering, planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for eca lng phase 1. the current arrangement with the technipfmc-kiewit partnership does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in november 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova signed heads of agreements with affiliates of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. for eca lng phase 1. we expect eca lng phase 1 to be a single train liquefaction facility located within the existing lng receipt terminal site with a capacity of approximately 2.4 mtpa of lng for export to global markets. each heads of agreement for eca lng phase 1 contemplates the parties negotiating definitive 20-year lng sales and 54 purchase agreements for the purchase of approximately 0.8 mtpa of lng from the eca lng facility, but does not obligate the parties to ultimately execute any agreements or participate in the project. the ultimate participation of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. in the potential eca lng project as contemplated by the heads of agreements remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. the development of the eca lng phase 1 and phase 2 projects is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including obtaining binding customer commitments, the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive epc contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. we expect that discussions on the potential expansion will continue among all the cameron lng jv members. there can be no assurance that a mutually agreeable expansion structure will be agreed to unanimously by the cameron lng jv members, which if not accomplished in a timely manner, could materially and adversely impact the development of the expansion project. in light of this, we are unable to predict whether or when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains. any decisions by sempra energy or our potential counterparties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the potential development (or expansion) of our liquefaction projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including equity acquisition and governance agreements, natural gas supply and transportation agreements, lng sale and purchase agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca facility in mexico is subject to on-going land and permit disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. finally, eca has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. we discuss these projects further in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. domestic and international hydraulic fracturing operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties that could increase the costs of doing business, impose additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect production of lng and reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. hydraulic fracturing operations in the u.s. and outside the u.s. face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to their operations. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies, including the epa and the bureau of land management of the u.s. department of the interior, have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the 55 safe drinking water act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. there are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. in addition, hydraulic fracturing operations may also be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by laws, policies and regulations of the u.s. affecting foreign trade and taxation, including u.s. trade sanctions. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state, local or international laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three-train cameron lng facility currently under construction. our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. energy-related commodity prices impact lng liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time for lng terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including: weather conditions; seasonality; changes in supply and demand; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; commodity production levels; actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas; federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation; natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; and expropriation of assets by foreign countries. the ferc has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates and over independent system operators and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. the ferc may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. any such action by the ferc may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. 56 increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified development and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s., mexico or south america. in addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new lng liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in north america, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for lng, it is likely that most of these projects will not be completed. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to revise or replace international trade agreements, such as nafta. in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co. ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra renewables' and sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be 57 required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. sempra mexico's and sempra lng &amp; midstream's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. in addition, we may develop and/or own some projects with other equity owners and, therefore, we may not control all material decisions with respect to those projects, as is the case with the cameron lng jv project. to the extent that there is disagreement amongst the project equity owners with respect to certain decisions affecting such a project, then the development, construction or operation of such project may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. such a circumstance could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, result of operations and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng regasification terminal in mexico is located, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. if we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our eca lng terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. in addition, our ability to convert the eca lng regasification terminal into an lng liquefaction export facility may be hindered or halted by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra renewables, sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation assets, electricity generation facilities, and lng, ethane and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure and operations. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations; governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses; 58 adverse changes in market conditions and inadequate enforcement of regulations; high rates of inflation; volatility in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below; foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law; changes in government policies or personnel; trade restrictions; limitations on u.s. company ownership in foreign countries; permitting and regulatory compliance; changes in labor supply and labor relations; adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico and other foreign jurisdictions; energy policy reform that may result in adverse changes to and/or difficulty in enforcing existing contracts; expropriation of assets; destruction of property or assets; adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate; general political, social, economic and business conditions; compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws; valuation of goodwill; and theft of assets. our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. these risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. in such cases, an appreciation of the u.s. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. we may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. risks related to our interest in oncor sempra energy could incur substantial tax liabilities if efh's 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh is deemed to be taxable. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016 efh distributed all the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 of the irc (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment). in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. in connection with the signing and closing of the merger, efh sought and received a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs and sempra energy and efh received tax opinions from their respective counsel that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling is generally binding on the irs and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh, now sempra texas holdings corp. and a subsidiary of sempra energy. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, sempra energy, through its ownership of sempra texas holdings corp., could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value associated with our indirect investment in oncor and could have a material adverse effect on the results of 59 operations, financial condition and/or prospects of sempra energy and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, sempra texas holdings corp. has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. failure by oncor to successfully execute its business strategy and objectives may materially adversely affect sempra energy's future results and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including several objectives that are capital intensive, and to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry. see below under oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all and the merger may materially adversely affect sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and prospects of sempra energy and, consequently, the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. we may issue a significant amount of equity securities to reduce our indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger, which may dilute the economic and voting interests of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock and preferred stock. in 2018, we issued a significant amount of equity securities to raise proceeds to fund a significant portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs and to reduce our indebtedness. as of february 26, 2019, 16,906,185 shares remain subject to future settlement under forward sale agreements, which may be settled on one or more dates specified by us occurring no later than december 15, 2019, which is the final settlement date under the agreements. although we expect to settle the forward sale agreements entirely by the physical delivery of shares of our common stock in exchange for cash proceeds, we may, subject to certain conditions, elect cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements. the forward sale agreements are also subject to acceleration by the forward purchasers upon the occurrence of certain events. in addition, in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series a (the series a preferred stock ), and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our 6.75% mandatory convertible preferred stock, series b (the series b preferred stock ), both of which we expect will ultimately convert into common stock. some of these equity issuances, including common stock issued upon settlement of the forward sale agreements, will likely occur in connection with the repayment of outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness we have incurred in connection with the merger. see below under we incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. although the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we may in fact issue fewer shares of any equity securities than anticipated, the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and settlement of the forward sale agreements) will have the effect, and the issuance of additional equity securities may have the effect, of diluting the economic and voting interests of our common shareholders. in addition, the issuance of additional shares of common stock (including shares issued upon conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock and settlement of the forward sale agreements) without a commensurate increase in our consolidated earnings would dilute, and the issuance of additional equity securities could dilute, our earnings per common share. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. we incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the merger. as a result, it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments. we incurred significant additional indebtedness to finance a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. in january 2018, we issued $5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed- and variable-rate notes in various series that mature between 2019 and 2048, and we issued approximately $2.6 billion of commercial paper in february 2018 and march 2018 (the oncor merger commercial paper) to fund a portion of the merger consideration and associated transaction costs. we have since repaid the oncor merger commercial paper with proceeds from equity issuances and newly issued commercial paper. our debt service obligations resulting from our aggregate indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and prospects by, among other things: making it more difficult and/or costly for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic and industry conditions, because a decrease in revenues or increase in costs could cause cash flow from operations to be insufficient to make scheduled debt service payments; limiting our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate and, consequently, put us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; 60 requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; making it more difficult for us to raise capital to fund working capital, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, pursue strategic initiatives or for other purposes; imposing higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our current or future borrowings subject to variable rates of interest; requiring that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might include, for example, limitations on additional borrowings; and imposing specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibitions or limitations on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit or delay our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. the merger substantially increased our debt service obligations and in light of the ring-fencing arrangements described below under certain ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor, there can be no assurance that we will receive any cash from oncor to assist us in servicing our indebtedness, paying dividends on our common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock or meeting our other cash needs, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness. we may seek to reduce this indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, other equity securities, and the settlement of sales of our common stock pursuant to our forward sale agreements, cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales, which may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. however, the issuance of any equity securities is subject to market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities on terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness, should we elect to do so, to a level that permits us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. certain ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. various ring-fencing measures are in place to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence creates both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and sempra energy and its affiliates and subsidiaries, on the other hand. in accordance with the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments we made in connection with the merger, we and oncor are subject to various restrictions, including, among others: the board of directors of oncor will consist of thirteen members, seven of which will be independent directors in all material respects under the rules of the new york stock exchange in relation to sempra energy and its subsidiaries and affiliated entities and any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings (and those directors must have no material relationship with sempra energy or its affiliates, or any other entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor or oncor holdings, currently or within the previous 10 years), two of which will be designated by sempra energy, two of which will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, which is an investment vehicle owned by third parties unaffiliated with sempra energy and that owns approximately 19.75 percent of the outstanding membership interests in oncor, and two of which will be current or former officers of oncor; a majority of the independent directors of oncor must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or o&amp;m in such budget is more than a 10-percent increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts of such expenditures in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable; oncor shall make minimum aggregate capital expenditures equal to at least $7.5 billion over the period from january 1, 2018 through december 31, 2022 (subject to certain possible adjustments); oncor may not pay any dividends or make any other distributions (except for contractual tax payments) if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements; 61 at all times, oncor will remain in compliance with the debt-to-equity ratio established by the puct from time to time for ratemaking purposes, and oncor will not pay dividends or other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct; if the credit rating on oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; without the prior approval of the puct, neither sempra energy nor any of its affiliates (excluding oncor) will incur, guarantee or pledge assets in respect of any indebtedness that is dependent on the revenues of oncor in more than a proportionate degree than the other revenues of sempra energy or on the stock of oncor, and there will be no debt at sempra texas holdings corp. or sempra texas intermediate holding company llc at any time; neither oncor nor oncor holdings will lend money to or borrow money from sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor, and neither oncor holdings nor oncor will share credit facilities with sempra energy or any of its affiliates (other than oncor subsidiaries), or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor; oncor will not seek recovery in rates of any expenses or liabilities related to efh's bankruptcy, or (1) any tax liabilities resulting from efh's spinoff of its former subsidiary texas competitive electric holdings company llc, (2) any asbestos claims relating to non-oncor operations of efh or (3) any make-whole claims by holders of debt securities issued by efh or efih, and sempra energy was required to and has filed with the puct a plan providing for the extinguishment of the liabilities described in items (1) through (3) above, which protects oncor from any harm; there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from sempra energy, including a requirement that dealings between oncor, oncor holdings and their subsidiaries and sempra energy, any of sempra energy's other affiliates or any entity with a direct or indirect ownership interest in oncor holdings or oncor, must be on an arm's-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions, separate recordkeeping requirements and a prohibition on pledging oncor assets or stock for any entity other than oncor; no transaction costs or transition costs related to the merger (excluding oncor employee time) will be borne by oncor's customers nor included in oncor's rates; sempra energy will continue to hold indirectly at least 51 percent of the ownership interests in oncor holdings and oncor for at least five years following the closing of the merger, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the puct; and oncor will provide bill credits to customers in an amount equal to 90 percent of any interest rate savings achieved due to any improvement in its credit ratings or market spreads compared to those as of june 30, 2017 until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate case filed after puct docket no. 46957 (except that savings will not be included in credits if already realized in rates); and one year after the merger, oncor will present a merger-synergy savings analysis to the puct and provide bill credits to its customers equal to 90 percent of any synergy savings until final rates are set in the next oncor base rate proceeding after puct docket no. 46957, at which time any total synergy savings shall be reflected in oncor's rates. on september 7, 2018, oncor filed its first semi-annual interest rate savings compliance report with the puct and began accruing a bill credit upon the issuance of its new debt in august 2018. as a result of the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments, we do not control oncor holdings or oncor, and we have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. we have limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor board of directors, which are controlled by independent directors. the existence of the ring-fencing measures and other limitations may increase our costs of financing. further, the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent that they take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of sempra energy may be materially adversely affected. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect us. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. 62 oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may be required to make additional investments in oncor. similarly, if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may be required to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. settlement provisions contained in our equity forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. the counterparties to the january forward sale agreements and the july forward sale agreements (collectively, the forward purchasers) have the right to accelerate their respective forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and require us to physically settle such forward sale agreements on a date specified by the forward purchasers if: they are unable to establish, maintain or unwind their hedge position with respect to the forward sale agreements; they determine that they are unable to, or it is commercially impracticable for them to, continue to borrow a number of shares of our common stock equal to the number of shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements or that, with respect to borrowing such number of shares of our common stock, they would incur a rate that is greater than the borrow cost specified in the forward sale agreements, subject to a prior notice requirement; we declare or pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock in an amount in excess of amounts, or at a time before, those prescribed by the forward sale agreements or declare or pay certain other types of dividends or distributions on shares of our common stock; an event is announced that, if consummated, would result in an extraordinary event (including certain mergers and tender offers, our nationalization, our insolvency and the delisting of the shares of our common stock); an ownership event (as such term is defined in the forward sale agreements) occurs; or certain other events of default, termination events or other specified events occur, including, among other things, a change in law. the forward purchasers' decision to exercise their right to accelerate the forward sale agreements (or, in certain cases, the portion thereof that they determine is affected by the relevant event) and to require us to settle the forward sale agreements will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the forward sale agreements irrespective of our capital needs, which would result in dilution to our eps and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our mandatory convertible preferred stock, any other equity that we may issue and our debt securities. the forward sale agreements provide for settlement on a settlement date or dates to be specified at our discretion, but which we expect to occur in one or more additional settlements on or prior to december 15, 2019. subject to the provisions of the forward sale agreements, delivery of our shares upon physical or net share settlement of the forward sale agreements will result in dilution to our eps and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, mandatory convertible preferred stock and any other equity that we may issue. we may elect, subject to certain conditions, cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements if we conclude that it is in our interest to do so. for example, we may conclude that it is in our interest to cash settle or net share settle the forward sale agreements if we otherwise have no current use for all or a portion of the net proceeds due upon physical settlement of the forward sale agreements. if we elect to cash or net share settle all or a portion of the shares of our common stock underlying the forward sale agreements, we would expect the forward purchasers or one of their affiliates to purchase the number of shares necessary, based on the number of shares with respect to which we have elected cash or net share settlement, in order to satisfy their obligation to return the shares of our common stock they had borrowed in connection with sales of our common stock related to each underlying stock offering and, if applicable in connection with net share settlement, to deliver shares of our common stock to us or take into account shares of our common stock to be delivered by us, as applicable. the purchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers or their affiliates to unwind the forward purchasers' hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase over time, thereby increasing the amount of cash or the number of shares of our common stock that we would owe to the forward purchasers upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements, or decreasing the amount of cash 63 or the number of shares of our common stock that the forward purchasers owe us upon cash settlement or net share settlement, as the case may be, of the forward sale agreements. dividend requirements associated with the mandatory convertible preferred stock sempra energy issued in connection with the merger subject us to certain risks. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on our series a preferred stock and our series b preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and investments to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors (or an authorized committee thereof) may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would likely have a material adverse impact on the market price of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock (i) have not been declared and paid, or (ii) have been declared but a sum of cash or number of shares of our common stock sufficient for payment thereof has not been set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date, in each case, for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class with holders of any and all other classes or series of our preferred stock ranking equally with the mandatory convertible preferred stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up and having similar voting rights, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20 -percent ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. as a result of ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments, we account for our indirect, 100-percent ownership interest in oncor holdings, which owns an 80.25 percent interest in oncor, as an equity method investment, which investment is $9,652 million at december 31, 2018. sempra lng &amp; midstream accounts for its investment in the cameron lng jv under the equity method, which investment is $1,271 million at december 31, 2018 . at december 31, 2018 , sempra renewables had investments totaling $291 million in several jvs to operate wind generation facilities. sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in a jv with a subsidiary of transcanada to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50 -percent interest in a renewables wind project in baja california , and a 50-percent interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. at december 31, 2018 , these various jv investments by sempra mexico totaled $747 million . sempra energy has an equity method investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership which is in the process of being dissolved and for which sempra energy is subject to certain indemnities as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. any adverse resolution of matters associated with our remaining investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra energy committed to make a capital contribution to oncor for oncor to fund its acquisition of infrareit, which acquisition we expect will close in mid-2019. we estimate the capital contribution to be $1,025 million, excluding our share of the approximately $40 million for a management agreement termination fee, as well as other customary transaction costs incurred by infrareit that would be borne by oncor as part of the acquisition. the capital contribution is contingent on the satisfaction of customary conditions, including the substantially simultaneous closing of the transactions contemplated by the infrareit merger agreement. we discuss these transactions in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance. sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream have provided guarantees related to jv financing agreements, and sempra south american utilities and sempra mexico have provided loans to jvs in which they have investments and to other affiliates. we discuss the guarantees in note 6 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the 64 businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 5, 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2018, sempra energy had approximately $2.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 3.9 percent of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico, chilquinta energ a in chile and luz del sur in peru. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. md&amp;a critical accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we discuss properties related to our electric, natural gas and energy infrastructure operations in item 1. business and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other properties sempra energy occupies its 16-story corporate headquarters building in san diego, california, pursuant to a 25-year lease that expires in 2040. the lease has five five-year renewal options. we discuss the details of this lease further in notes 2 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. socalgas leases approximately one-fourth of a 52-story office building in downtown los angeles, california, pursuant to an operating lease expiring in 2026. the lease has four five-year renewal options. sdg&amp;e occupies a six-building office complex in san diego, california, pursuant to two separate operating leases, both ending in 2024. one lease has two five-year renewal options and the other lease has three five-year renewal options. sempra south american utilities owns or leases office facilities at various locations in chile and peru, with the leases ending from 2021 to 2027. sempra global owns or leases office facilities at various locations in the u.s. and mexico, with the leases ending from 2019 to 2027. we own or lease other land, warehouses, offices, operating and maintenance centers, shops, service facilities and equipment necessary to conduct our businesses. 65 item 3. legal proceedings we are not party to, and our property is not the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our businesses) except for the matters (1) described in notes 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, (2) referred to in item 1a. risk factors or (3) referred to in item 7. md&amp;a factors influencing future performance . item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 66 part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information sempra energy common stock our common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the ticker symbol sre. sempra energy equity compensation plans sempra energy has a long-term incentive plan that permits the grant of a wide variety of equity and equity-based incentive awards to directors, officers and key employees. at december 31, 2018 , outstanding awards consisted of stock options and rsus held by 446 employees. the following table sets forth information regarding our equity compensation plan at december 31, 2018 . equity compensation plan number of shares to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (1) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2) number of additional shares remaining available for future issuance (3) equity compensation plan approved by shareholders: 2013 long-term incentive plan 1,701,470 $ 54.63 6,067,767 (1) consists of 56,940 options to purchase shares of our common stock, all of which were granted at an exercise price equal to 100 percent of the grant date fair market value of the shares subject to the option, 1,242,169 performance-based rsus and 402,361 service-based rsus. each performance-based rsu represents the right to receive from zero to 2.0 shares of our common stock if applicable performance conditions are satisfied. the 1,701,470 shares also include awards granted under two previously shareholder-approved long-term incentive plans (predecessor plans). no new awards may be granted under these predecessor plans. (2) represents only the weighted-average exercise price of the 56,940 outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock. (3) the number of shares available for future issuance is increased by the number of shares to which the participant would otherwise be entitled that are withheld or surrendered to satisfy the exercise price or to satisfy tax withholding obligations relating to any plan awards, and is also increased by the number of shares subject to awards that expire or are forfeited, canceled or otherwise terminated without the issuance of shares. we provide additional discussion of share-based compensation in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers on september 11, 2007, the sempra energy board of directors authorized the repurchase of sempra energy common stock provided that the amounts spent for such purpose do not exceed the greater of $2 billion or amounts spent to purchase no more than 40 million shares. no shares have been repurchased under this authorization since 2011. approximately $500 million remains authorized by our board of directors for the purchase of additional shares, not to exceed approximately 12 million shares. we also may, from time to time, purchase shares of our common stock to which participants would otherwise be entitled from long-term incentive plan participants who elect to sell a sufficient number of shares in connection with the vesting of rsus in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. item 6. selected financial data 67 five-year summaries the following tables present selected financial data of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas for the five years ended december 31, 2018 . the data is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of each company. you should read this information in conjunction with item 7. md&amp;a and the consolidated financial statements and notes contained in this annual report on form 10-k. five-year summary of selected financial data sempra energy consolidated (in millions, except per share amounts) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 revenues: utilities electric $ 5,506 $ 5,415 $ 5,211 $ 5,158 $ 5,209 natural gas 4,540 4,361 4,050 4,096 4,549 energy-related businesses 1,641 1,431 922 977 1,277 total revenues $ 11,687 $ 11,207 $ 10,183 $ 10,231 $ 11,035 income from continuing operations $ 1,126 $ 351 $ 1,519 $ 1,448 $ 1,262 earnings from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests (76 ) (94 ) (148 ) (98 ) (100 ) mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends (125 ) preferred dividends of subsidiary (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) earnings/income from continuing operations attributable to common shares $ 924 $ 256 $ 1,370 $ 1,349 $ 1,161 attributable to common shares: earnings/income from continuing operations basic $ 3.45 $ 1.02 $ 5.48 $ 5.43 $ 4.72 diluted $ 3.42 $ 1.01 $ 5.46 $ 5.37 $ 4.63 dividends declared per common share $ 3.58 $ 3.29 $ 3.02 $ 2.80 $ 2.64 effective income tax rate 12 % 81 % 21 % 20 % 20 % weighted-average rate base: sdg&amp;e $ 9,619 $ 8,549 $ 8,019 $ 7,671 $ 7,253 socalgas $ 6,413 $ 5,493 $ 4,775 $ 4,269 $ 3,879 at december 31 current assets $ 3,645 $ 3,341 $ 3,110 $ 2,891 $ 4,184 total assets $ 60,638 $ 50,454 $ 47,786 $ 41,150 $ 39,651 current liabilities $ 7,523 $ 6,635 $ 5,927 $ 4,612 $ 5,069 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (1) $ 21,611 $ 16,445 $ 14,429 $ 13,134 $ 12,086 short-term debt (2) $ 3,752 $ 2,967 $ 2,692 $ 1,529 $ 2,202 sempra energy shareholders' equity $ 17,138 $ 12,670 $ 12,951 $ 11,809 $ 11,326 common shares outstanding 273.8 251.4 250.2 248.3 246.3 book value per common share $ 54.35 $ 50.40 $ 51.77 $ 47.56 $ 45.98 (1) includes capital lease obligations. (2) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of capital lease obligations. in 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $1.1 billion ($629 million after tax and nci) at sempra lng &amp; midstream, $200 million ($145 million after tax) at sempra renewables and $65 million at parent and other. we discuss the impairments in notes 5 , 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2018, we completed the sale of our u.s. operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects, as well as an interest in one wind facility, and recognized a pretax gain on sale of $513 million ( $367 million after tax). we discuss the sale and related gain in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 68 in 2018, sempra energy completed registered public offerings of our common stock (including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements), series a preferred stock, series b preferred stock and long-term debt. these offerings, including settlement of a portion of the forward sale agreements, provided total net proceeds of approximately $4.5 billion in equity and $4.9 billion in debt. a portion of these proceeds were used to partially fund the acquisition of an indirect, 100 - percent interest in oncor holdings, which we account for as an equity method investment. we discuss the acquisition and equity method investment further in notes 5 and 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017, sempra energy's income tax expense included $870 million related to the impact of the tcja, as we discuss in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a income taxes. in 2017, we recorded a charge of $208 million (after tax) for the write-off of sdg&amp;e's wildfire regulatory asset, which we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017 and 2016, sempra mexico recognized impairment charges of $47 million (after nci) and $90 million (after tax and nci), respectively, related to assets held for sale at tdm. we discuss the impairments in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2016, we recorded a $350 million (after tax and nci) noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of sempra mexico's equity interest in ienova pipelines (formerly known as gdc). in 2016, ienova completed a private offering in the u.s. and outside of mexico and a concurrent public offering in mexico of common stock. we discuss litigation and other contingencies in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. five-year summaries of selected financial data sdg&amp;e and socalgas (dollars in millions) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 sdg&amp;e: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 4,568 $ 4,476 $ 4,253 $ 4,219 $ 4,329 operating income (1) 1,010 709 976 1,045 976 earnings attributable to common shares 669 407 570 587 507 balance sheet data: total assets $ 19,225 $ 17,844 $ 17,719 $ 16,515 $ 16,260 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (2) 6,138 5,335 4,658 4,455 4,283 short-term debt (3) 372 473 191 218 611 sdg&amp;e shareholder's equity 6,015 5,598 5,641 5,223 4,932 socalgas: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 3,962 $ 3,785 $ 3,471 $ 3,489 $ 3,855 operating income (1) 591 627 551 548 490 dividends on preferred stock 1 1 1 1 1 earnings attributable to common shares 400 396 349 419 332 balance sheet data: total assets $ 15,389 $ 14,159 $ 13,424 $ 12,104 $ 10,446 long-term debt (excludes current portion) (2) 3,427 2,485 2,982 2,481 1,891 short-term debt (3) 259 617 62 9 50 socalgas shareholders' equity 4,258 3,907 3,510 3,149 2,781 (1) as adjusted for the retrospective adoption of asu 2017-07, which we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. (2) includes capital lease obligations. (3) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of capital lease obligations. item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 69 key events and issues in 2018 below are key events and issues that affected our business in 2018 ; some of these may continue to affect our future results. in march 2018, sempra energy completed the acquisition of an indirect 80.25-percent interest in oncor holdings. in anticipation of the closing, in january 2018, sempra energy completed registered public offerings of its common stock (including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements), series a preferred stock and long-term debt. in june 2018, sempra energy's board of directors approved a plan to divest certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s., and all our u.s. wind and u.s. solar assets. in december 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of all its u.s. operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects, and its interest in a wind generation facility to a subsidiary of con ed. in february 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. in july 2018, sempra energy completed registered public offerings of its common stock (including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements) and series b preferred stock. in october 2018, oncor entered into an agreement to acquire infrareit and its subsidiary, infrareit partners. also in october 2018, sempra energy entered into a separate agreement to acquire a 50-percent economic interest in sharyland holdings, lp. the transactions are expected to close in mid-2019. in december 2018, polish oil &amp; gas company and port arthur lng entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 mtpa of lng per year, subject to final investment decision, among other things. results of operations in 2018 , our earnings increased by approximately $668 million to $924 million and our diluted eps increased by $2.41 per share to $3.42 per share. the change in eps included a decrease of $(0.24) attributable to an increase in the weighted-average common shares outstanding and dilutive common stock equivalents, primarily due to the common stock issuances in the first and third quarters of 2018 that we discuss in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017 compared to 2016 , our earnings decreased by $1.1 billion ( 81% ) to $256 million and our diluted eps decreased by $4.45 per share ( 82% ) to $1.01 per share. our earnings and diluted eps were impacted by variances discussed in segment results below and by the items included in the table sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted eps, also below. segment results the following section presents earnings (losses) by sempra energy segment, as well as parent and other, and the related discussion of the changes in segment earnings (losses). throughout the md&amp;a, our reference to earnings represents earnings attributable to common shares. variance amounts presented are the after-tax earnings impact (based on applicable statutory tax rates), unless otherwise noted, and before nci, where applicable. as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, on december 22, 2017, the tcja was signed into law. the tcja reduced the u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective january 1, 2018. after-tax variances between 2018 and 2017 assume that amounts in both years were taxed at the 2017 statutory rate. 70 sempra energy earnings (losses) by segment (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 sdg&amp;e $ 669 $ 407 $ 570 socalgas (1) 400 396 349 sempra texas utility 371 sempra south american utilities 199 186 156 sempra mexico 237 169 463 sempra renewables 328 252 55 sempra lng &amp; midstream (617 ) 150 (107 ) parent and other (1)(2) (663 ) (1,304 ) (116 ) earnings $ 924 $ 256 $ 1,370 (1) after preferred dividends. (2) includes $1,165 million income tax expense from the effects of the tcja in 2017, after-tax interest expense ($360 million in 2018, $170 million in 2017 and $169 million in 2016), intercompany eliminations recorded in consolidation and certain corporate costs . sdg&amp;e the increase in earnings of $262 million in 2018 was primarily due to: $208 million charge in 2017 for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs, which we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $65 million higher earnings from electric transmission operations in 2018, including the annual ferc formulaic rate adjustment; $28 million unfavorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of certain u.s. federal deferred income tax assets as a result of the tcja; and $27 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2018, primarily related to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; offset by $35 million higher net interest expense, of which $25 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; and $11 million unfavorable impact due to lower cost of capital related to grc base business, which excludes incremental projects and other balanced capital programs, in 2018, of which $2 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018. the decrease in earnings of $163 million in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $208 million charge in 2017 for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs; and $28 million unfavorable impact from the remeasurement of certain u.s. federal deferred income tax assets as a result of the tcja; offset by $31 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $27 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2017 and lower non-refundable operating costs; and $17 million increase in afudc related to equity . socalgas the increase in earnings of $4 million ( 1% ) in 2018 was primarily due to: $36 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2018, net of expenses including depreciation. of this increase, $28 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; and $16 million higher psep earnings; offset by $22 million higher net interest expense, of which $15 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; $21 million unfavorable impact due to lower cost of capital related to grc base business in 2018, of which $4 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; and $22 million in 2018 from impacts associated with aliso canyon litigation compared to $20 million in 2017. the increase in earnings of $47 million ( 13% ) in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $49 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd; $16 million higher earnings associated with the psep and advanced metering assets; and 71 $13 million impairment of assets in 2016 related to the southern gas system reliability project (also referred to as the north-south pipeline); offset by $20 million for aliso canyon litigation reserves. sempra texas utility earnings of $371 million in 2018 represent equity earnings from our investment in oncor holdings. we discuss the march 2018 acquisition in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra south american utilities the increase in earnings of $13 million ( 7% ) in 2018 was primarily due to $11 million higher earnings from operations mainly from lower cost of purchased power and $6 million due to a gain on the sale of a hydroelectric power plant development project in peru. the increase in earnings of $30 million ( 19% ) in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $16 million lower income tax expense, including $17 million income tax expense in 2016 related to peruvian tax reform, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes; $8 million higher earnings from operations primarily due to an increase in rates and lower operating expenses at luz del sur ; and $6 million higher earnings from foreign currency translation effects. sempra mexico the increase in earnings of $68 million ( 40% ) in 2018 was primarily due to: $107 million higher earnings at tdm, including $71 million impairment in 2017 of assets that were held for sale until june 1, 2018 and $32 million improved operating results primarily as a result of major maintenance in 2017 and higher revenues in 2018; $37 million higher pipeline operational earnings, primarily attributable to assets placed in service in the second quarter of 2017 and ienova's increased indirect ownership interest in tag; and $10 million improved operating results at ecogas, mainly due to new rates approved by cre and regulated revenues associated with recovery for revised tariffs; offset by $132 million earnings attributable to nci at ienova in 2018 compared to $73 million in 201 7, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; $22 million lower capitalized financing costs, primarily associated with assets placed in service at the end of the first half of 2017, net of higher equity earnings in 2018 from afudc at the img jv; and $7 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of: in 2018, $43 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $1 million gain from foreign currency derivatives, offset by in 2017, $84 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $49 million gain from foreign currency derivatives (we discuss these effects below in impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations ). the decrease in earnings of $294 million in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $432 million noncash gain in 2016 associated with the remeasurement of our equity interest in ienova pipelines (formerly known as gdc); $71 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of: in 2017, $84 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $49 million gain from foreign currency derivatives, and in 2016, $55 million favorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $19 million loss from foreign currency derivatives; $28 million higher income tax expense in 2017 mainly related to a deferred income tax liability on an outside basis difference in jv investments; and $28 million higher interest expense, including $19 million at ventika and $8 million at ienova pipelines related to debt assumed in their respective acquisitions; offset by $98 million higher pipeline operational earnings, primarily attributable to the increase in ownership in ienova pipelines from 50 percent to 100 percent in september 2016 and from other pipeline assets placed in service; 72 $73 million earnings attributable to nci at ienova in 2017, compared to $133 million in 2016; $71 million impairment in 2017 of the tdm natural gas-fired power plant, net of a $12 million income tax benefit that has been fully reserved, compared to a $111 million impairment in 2016 of such assets; $34 million higher operational earnings in 2017 from sempra mexico's renewables business, primarily due to ventika, which we acquired in december 2016; and $8 million tax benefit in 2017 from a reduction to the outside basis deferred income tax liability on our investment in the tdm natural gas-fired power plant, compared to an $8 million tax expense in 2016. sempra renewables the increase in earnings of $76 million ( 30% ) in 2018 was primarily due to: $367 million gain on the sale of all sempra renewables' operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects and its 50-percent interest in a wind power generation facility in december 2018, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $35 million higher pretax losses attributed to nci, including the impact of the tcja on nci allocations computed using the hlbv method; and $19 million lower depreciation as a result of solar and wind assets held for sale; offset by $192 million favorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities as a result of the tcja; and $145 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain u.s. wind equity method investments in 2018, as we discuss in notes 5 , 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the increase in earnings of $197 million in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $192 million favorable impact from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities as a result of the tcja; and $14 million higher earnings from our solar tax equity investments, including $19 million of higher pretax losses attributed to solar tax equity investors reflected in nci, offset by $7 million associated income taxes. sempra lng &amp; midstream losses of $617 million in 2018 compared to earnings of $150 million in 2017 were primarily due to: $665 million net impairment in 2018, including $801 million impairment in the second quarter of 2018, offset by a $136 million reduction to the impairment in the fourth quarter of 2018, of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s., some of which have been classified as held for sale, as we discuss in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $142 million higher income tax expense in 2018, which included $133 million favorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities as a result of the tcja and $9 million unfavorable impact in 2018 to adjust tcja provisional amounts recorded in 2017; and $34 million settlement proceeds in 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty in bankruptcy court, of which $28 million related to the charge in 2016 from the permanent release of certain pipeline capacity, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; offset by $36 million losses attributable to nci in 2018 related to the net impairment discussed above; $24 million higher earnings from midstream activities primarily driven by lower depreciation and amortization as a result of natural gas storage assets held for sale; and $15 million improved results in 2018 from lng marketing activities. the increase of $257 million in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $133 million favorable impact from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities; $123 million loss in 2016 on permanent release of certain pipeline capacity; $40 million improved results in 2017 due to unfavorable results from midstream activities, including lng operations, in 2016; $34 million settlement proceeds received from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty in bankruptcy court; and $27 million impairment charge in 2016 related to our investment in rockies express; offset by $78 million gain on the sale of energysouth in september 2016, net of related expenses; and $11 million lower equity earnings resulting from the sale of our investment in rockies express in may 2016. 73 parent and other the decrease in losses of $641 million in 2018 was primarily due to: $1,165 million unfavorable impact in 2017 from the tcja, offset by $76 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional amounts recorded in 2017. we discuss the impacts from the tcja in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes below; offset by $185 million increase in net interest expense, of which $58 million relates to the lower tax rate in 2018; $125 million mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends declared; $65 million impairment of the rbs sempra commodities equity method investment, which we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $15 million investment losses in 2018 compared to $41 million investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans, net of deferred compensation expense associated with these investments. the increase in losses of $1.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $1,147 million income tax expense in 2017 compared to a $54 million tax benefit in 2016, primarily due to: $1,165 million unfavorable impact from the tcja, $20 million u.s. income tax benefit in 2016 as a result of a change in planned repatriation of earnings, as we discuss below in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, and $17 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; and $20 million of costs in 2017 associated with foreign currency derivatives; offset by $31 million higher investment gains on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans, net of an increase in deferred compensation expense associated with those investments. adjusted earnings and adjusted eps we prepare the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap. however, management may use earnings and eps adjusted to exclude certain items (referred to as adjusted earnings and adjusted eps) internally for financial planning, for analysis of performance and for reporting of results to the board of directors. we may also use adjusted earnings and adjusted eps when communicating our financial results and earnings outlook to analysts and investors. adjusted earnings and adjusted eps are non-gaap financial measures. because of the significance and/or nature of the excluded items, management believes that these non-gaap financial measures provide a meaningful comparison of the performance of business operations to prior and future periods. non-gaap financial measures are supplementary information that should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the table below reconciles sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted eps to gaap earnings and gaap diluted eps, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap. 74 sempra energy adjusted earnings and adjusted eps (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) non-controlling interests earnings diluted eps year ended december 31, 2018 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 924 $ 3.42 excluded items: gain on sale of certain sempra renewables assets $ (513 ) $ 146 $ (367 ) (1.36 ) impairment of investment in rbs sempra commodities 65 65 0.24 impairment of non-utility natural gas storage assets 1,117 (452 ) (36 ) 629 2.33 impairment of u.s. wind equity method investments 200 (55 ) 145 0.54 impacts associated with aliso canyon litigation 1 21 22 0.08 impact from the tcja 85 85 0.32 sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,503 $ 5.57 weighted-average shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 269,852 year ended december 31, 2017 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 256 $ 1.01 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 870 $ 870 3.45 write-off of wildfire regulatory asset 351 (143 ) 208 0.82 impairment of tdm assets held for sale 71 (24 ) 47 0.19 aliso canyon litigation reserves 20 20 0.08 deferred income tax benefit associated with tdm (8 ) 3 (5 ) (0.02 ) recoveries related to 2016 permanent release of pipeline capacity (47 ) 19 (28 ) (0.11 ) sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,368 $ 5.42 weighted-average shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 252,300 year ended december 31, 2016 sempra energy gaap earnings $ 1,370 $ 5.46 excluded items: remeasurement gain in connection with gdc acquisition $ (617 ) $ 185 $ 82 (350 ) (1.39 ) gain on sale of energysouth (130 ) 52 (78 ) (0.31 ) permanent release of pipeline capacity 206 (83 ) 123 0.49 sdg&amp;e tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd 52 (21 ) 31 0.12 socalgas tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd 83 (34 ) 49 0.19 impairment of investment in rockies express 44 (17 ) 27 0.11 impairment of tdm assets held for sale 131 (20 ) (21 ) 90 0.36 deferred income tax expense associated with tdm 8 (3 ) 5 0.02 sempra energy adjusted earnings $ 1,267 $ 5.05 weighted-average shares outstanding, diluted (thousands) 251,155 (1) except for adjustments that are solely income tax and tax related to outside basis differences, income taxes were primarily calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates. income taxes associated with tdm were calculated based on the applicable statutory tax rate, including translation from historic to current exchange rates. an income tax benefit of $12 million associated with the 2017 tdm impairment has been fully reserved. for each period in which a non-gaap financial measure is used, we provide in the tables below a reconciliation of sdg&amp;e and socalgas adjusted earnings to gaap earnings, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with u.s. gaap. sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings (dollars in millions) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) earnings year ended december 31, 2017 sdg&amp;e gaap earnings $ 407 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 28 28 write-off of wildfire regulatory asset 351 (143 ) 208 75 sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings $ 643 year ended december 31, 2016 sdg&amp;e gaap earnings $ 570 excluded item: sdg&amp;e tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd $ 52 $ (21 ) 31 sdg&amp;e adjusted earnings $ 601 (1) income taxes were calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates, except for adjustments that are solely income tax. socalgas adjusted earnings (dollars in millions) pretax amount income tax expense (benefit) (1) earnings year ended december 31, 2018 socalgas gaap earnings $ 400 excluded item: impacts associated with aliso canyon litigation $ 1 $ 21 22 socalgas adjusted earnings $ 422 year ended december 31, 2017 socalgas gaap earnings $ 396 excluded items: impact from the tcja $ $ 2 2 aliso canyon litigation reserves 20 20 socalgas adjusted earnings $ 418 year ended december 31, 2016 socalgas gaap earnings $ 349 excluded item: socalgas tax repairs adjustments related to 2016 grc fd $ 83 $ (34 ) 49 socalgas adjusted earnings $ 398 (1) income taxes were calculated based on applicable statutory tax rates, except for adjustments that are solely income tax. changes in revenues, costs and earnings this section contains a discussion of the differences between periods in the specific line items of the consolidated statements of operations for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. utilities revenues our utilities revenues include: electric revenues at: sdg&amp;e sempra south american utilities' chilquinta energ a and luz del sur natural gas revenues at: sdg&amp;e socalgas sempra mexico's ecogas sempra lng &amp; midstream's mobile gas and willmut gas (prior to the sale of energysouth on september 12, 2016) intercompany revenues included in the separate revenues of each utility are eliminated in the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. socalgas and sdg&amp;e currently operate under a regulatory framework that: permits sdg&amp;e to recover the actual cost incurred to generate or procure electricity based on annual estimates of the cost of electricity supplied to customers. the differences in cost between estimates and actual are recovered in subsequent periods 76 through rates. permits the cost of natural gas purchased for core customers (primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers) to be passed through to customers in rates substantially as incurred. however, socalgas' gcim provides socalgas the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for its core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. this mechanism permits full recovery of costs incurred when average purchase costs are within a price range around the benchmark price. any higher costs incurred or savings realized outside this range are shared between the core customers and socalgas. we provide further discussion in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms california utilities. also permits the california utilities to recover certain expenses for programs authorized by the cpuc, or refundable programs. because changes in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' cost of electricity and/or natural gas are substantially recovered in rates, changes in these costs are offset in the changes in revenues, and therefore do not impact earnings. in addition to the changes in cost or market prices, electric or natural gas revenues recorded during a period are impacted by customer billing cycles causing a difference between customer billings and recorded or authorized costs. these differences are required to be balanced over time, resulting in over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts. we discuss balancing accounts and their effects further in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the table below summarizes revenues and cost of sales for our utilities. utilities revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 electric revenues: sdg&amp;e $ 4,003 $ 3,935 $ 3,754 sempra south american utilities 1,507 1,486 1,463 eliminations and adjustments (4 ) (6 ) (6 ) total 5,506 5,415 5,211 natural gas revenues: socalgas 3,962 3,785 3,471 sdg&amp;e 565 541 499 sempra mexico 78 110 88 sempra lng &amp; midstream (1) 68 eliminations and adjustments (65 ) (75 ) (76 ) total 4,540 4,361 4,050 total utilities revenues $ 10,046 $ 9,776 $ 9,261 cost of electric fuel and purchased power: sdg&amp;e $ 1,370 $ 1,293 $ 1,187 sempra south american utilities 965 988 1,001 eliminations and adjustments (12 ) total $ 2,323 $ 2,281 $ 2,188 cost of natural gas: socalgas $ 1,048 $ 1,025 $ 891 sdg&amp;e 152 164 127 sempra mexico 21 70 52 sempra lng &amp; midstream (1) 17 eliminations and adjustments (13 ) (69 ) (20 ) total $ 1,208 $ 1,190 $ 1,067 (1) in september 2016, we completed the sale of energysouth, the parent company of mobile gas and willmut gas. electric revenues and cost of electric fuel and purchased power our electric revenues increased by $91 million ( 2% ) to $5.5 billion in 2018 primarily due to: $68 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including: $77 million higher cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below, $50 million higher revenues from transmission operations, including the annual ferc formulaic rate adjustment, 77 $32 million decrease in charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, and $32 million increase in 2018 due to an increase in rates permitted under the attrition mechanism in the 2016 grc fd, offset by $65 million revenue requirement deferral due to the effect of the tcja, $39 million revenue requirement deferral related to the songs settlement, which is offset by the discontinuation of amortization, and $13 million lower cost of capital related to grc base business in 2018; and $21 million increase at sempra south american utilities primarily due to higher rates at luz del sur, offset by lower rates at chilquinta energ a. the increase was offset by lower volumes at luz del sur, which were primarily driven by weather and the migration of regulated and non-regulated customers to tolling customers, who pay only a tolling fee. in 2017 compared to 2016 , our electric revenues increased by $204 million ( 4% ) to $5.4 billion primarily due to: $181 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including: $106 million higher cost of electric fuel and purchased power, $52 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, $52 million increase due to 2017 attrition, and $31 million higher authorized revenues from electric transmission, offset by $50 million charge in 2017 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd; and $23 million increase at sempra south american utilities, including: $56 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects, and $44 million due to higher rates at luz del sur, offset by lower rates at chilquinta energ a, offset by $75 million lower volumes at luz del sur, primarily due to the migration of regulated and non-regulated customers to tolling customers, who pay only a tolling fee. our utilities' cost of electric fuel and purchased power increased by $42 million ( 2% ), remaining at $2.3 billion in 2018 , primarily due to: $77 million increase at sdg&amp;e driven primarily by higher gas prices and electricity market costs, partially offset by lower cost of purchased power from renewable sources due to decreased solar and wind production and from lower capacity contract costs; offset by $23 million decrease at sempra south american utilities primarily due to lower volumes at luz del sur and lower prices at chilquinta energ a, offset by higher prices at luz del sur . our utilities' cost of electric fuel and purchased power increased by $93 million ( 4% ) to $2.3 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $106 million increase at sdg&amp;e, primarily due to an increase in the cost of purchased power due to higher natural gas prices, an increase from the incremental purchase of renewable energy at higher prices and an additional capacity contract; offset by $13 million decrease at sempra south american utilities primarily due to: $48 million lower volumes at luz del sur , offset by $38 million due to foreign currency exchange rate effects. natural gas revenues and cost of natural gas the table below summarizes the average cost of natural gas sold by the california utilities and included in cost of natural gas. the average cost of natural gas sold at each utility is impacted by market prices, as well as transportation, tariff and other charges. california utilities average cost of natural gas (dollars per thousand cubic feet) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 socalgas $ 3.58 $ 3.44 $ 3.05 sdg&amp;e 3.81 4.08 3.20 78 in 2018 , our natural gas revenues increased by $179 million ( 4% ) to $4.5 billion primarily due to: $177 million increase at socalgas, which included: $160 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m, $71 million increase due to 2018 attrition, $23 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below, and $19 million decrease in charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, offset by $67 million revenue requirement deferral due to the effect of the tcja, $29 million lower cost of capital related to grc base business in 2018, and $10 million lower net revenues from capital projects, including $60 million decrease for advanced metering infrastructure due to completion of the project, offset by increases of $14 million for psep and $36 million for other capital projects; and $24 million increase at sdg&amp;e primarily due to higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m, and 2018 attrition; offset by $32 million decrease at sempra mexico, which included: $46 million lower volumes at ecogas primarily as a result of the new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018 that no longer allow ecogas to sell natural gas to high consumption end users (defined by the cre as customers with annual consumption that exceeds 4,735 mmbtu) and require those end users to procure their natural gas needs from natural gas marketers, including sempra mexico's marketing business, offset by $13 million higher rates approved by the cre, including $7 million from a regulatory adjustment to rates charged to end users in 2014 through 2016. in 2017 compared to 2016 , our natural gas revenues increased by $311 million ( 8% ) to $4.4 billion primarily due to: $314 million increase at socalgas, which included: $134 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, $83 million of charges in 2016 associated with 2012-2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd, $57 million increase due to 2017 attrition, and $49 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep, offset by $19 million in 2016 to reduce estimated 2015 income tax benefits generated from income tax repairs deductions that were reallocated to ratepayers pursuant to the 2016 grc fd to actual deductions taken on the 2015 tax return; $42 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included: $37 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, and $21 million higher revenues primarily associated with the psep, offset by $16 million lower recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m; and $22 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas prices and higher rates for distribution at ecogas; offset by $68 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016. our cost of natural gas increased by $18 million ( 2% ), remaining at $1.2 billion in 2018, primarily due to: $56 million increase primarily from lower elimination of intercompany costs at sempra mexico; and $23 million increase at socalgas due to $43 million from higher average gas prices, offset by $20 million from lower volumes driven by weather; offset by $49 million decrease at sempra mexico primarily associated with the lower revenues at ecogas; and $12 million decrease at sdg&amp;e primarily due to lower average gas prices. our cost of natural gas increased by $123 million ( 12% ) to $1.2 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $134 million increase at socalgas due to $114 million from higher average gas prices and $20 million from higher volumes driven by weather; $37 million increase at sdg&amp;e primarily due to higher average gas prices; and $18 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas prices at ecogas; offset by $49 million decrease primarily from higher elimination of intercompany costs at sempra mexico. 79 energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales the table below shows revenues and cost of sales for our energy-related businesses. energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 revenues sempra south american utilities $ 78 $ 81 $ 93 sempra mexico 1,298 1,086 637 sempra renewables 124 94 34 sempra lng &amp; midstream 472 540 440 eliminations and adjustments (331 ) (370 ) (282 ) total revenues $ 1,641 $ 1,431 $ 922 cost of sales (1) cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power: sempra south american utilities $ 18 $ 20 $ 13 sempra mexico 354 252 200 sempra lng &amp; midstream 294 382 337 eliminations and adjustments (311 ) (315 ) (273 ) total $ 355 $ 339 $ 277 other cost of sales: sempra south american utilities $ 58 $ 52 $ 69 sempra mexico 9 9 10 sempra lng &amp; midstream 19 (30 ) 251 eliminations and adjustments (8 ) (7 ) (8 ) total $ 78 $ 24 $ 322 (1) excludes depreciation and amortization, which are presented separately on the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. revenues from our energy-related businesses increased by $210 million ( 15% ) to $1.6 billion in 2018 . the increase included: $212 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to: $84 million from the marketing business, primarily due to new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018 that require high consumption end users (previously serviced by ecogas and other natural gas utilities) to procure their natural gas needs from natural gas marketers, including sempra mexico's marketing business, and from higher volumes and gas prices, $69 million at tdm primarily due to the plant outage in 2017 as a result of scheduled major maintenance and higher power prices, $34 million primarily due to pipeline assets placed in service in the second quarter of 2017, and $18 million from o&amp;m services provided to the tag jv; $39 million increase from lower intercompany eliminations associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico; and $30 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2018; offset by $68 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to: $98 million costs associated with indemnity payments to sempra mexico in 2018. indemnity payments of $103 million in 2017 were recorded in cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power prior to adoption of asc 606, offset by $50 million from the marketing business primarily from higher natural gas sales and turnback cargo revenues. in 2017 compared to 2016 , revenues from our energy-related businesses increased by $509 million ( 55% ) to $1.4 billion . the increase included: $449 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to: $293 million from the acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016 and from other pipeline assets placed in service, $96 million from the acquisition of ventika in december 2016, $30 million higher revenues primarily due to higher natural gas prices and customer base in its gas business, and $28 million increase at tdm due to higher power prices and volumes; 80 $100 million increase at sempra lng &amp; midstream, which included: $51 million primarily from natural gas marketing activities, including an increase in sales of natural gas, and from changes in natural gas prices, $29 million from higher natural gas and lng sales to sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas prices, $12 million from non-delivery of lng cargoes due to higher natural gas prices, and $10 million attributable to cameron interstate pipeline; and $60 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service during 2016; offset by $88 million primarily from higher intercompany eliminations associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. the cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power for our energy-related businesses increased by $16 million ( 5% ) to $355 million in 2018 primarily due to: $102 million at sempra mexico primarily associated with higher revenues from the marketing business as a result of the new regulations that went into effect in 2018. the increase at sempra mexico was also due to higher volumes in 2018 due to the tdm plant outage in 2017; and $4 million lower intercompany eliminations of costs between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico, including $103 million elimination of indemnity payments made by sempra lng &amp; midstream in 2017 now recorded as a reduction to energy-related business revenues since adoption of asc 606; offset by $88 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to indemnity payments to sempra mexico in 2017 recorded in revenues in 2018 pursuant to adoption of asc 606. the cost of natural gas, electric fuel and purchased power for our energy-related businesses increased by $62 million ( 22% ) to $339 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $52 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to higher natural gas costs and customer base in its gas business; and $45 million increase at sempra lng &amp; midstream primarily due to higher natural gas costs; offset by $42 million from higher intercompany eliminations of costs associated with sales between sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra mexico. other cost of sales for our energy-related businesses increased by $54 million to $78 million in 2018 primarily due to $57 million in settlement proceeds received by sempra lng &amp; midstream in may 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty, of which $47 million is related to the charge in 2016 from permanent release of pipeline capacity. other cost of sales for our energy-related businesses decreased by $298 million to $24 million in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $206 million charge in 2016 related to sempra lng &amp; midstream's permanent release of certain pipeline capacity; $57 million settlement proceeds received by sempra lng &amp; midstream in may 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty; $18 million capacity costs in 2016 on the rockies express pipeline that ha ve since been permanently released; and $16 million due to lower sales of electrical services and materials at tecnored. 81 operation and maintenance in the table below, we provide a breakdown of o&amp;m by segment. operation and maintenance (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 (1) 2016 (1) sdg&amp;e $ 1,058 $ 1,024 $ 1,062 socalgas 1,613 1,474 1,391 sempra south american utilities 178 169 171 sempra mexico 239 234 149 sempra renewables 89 73 54 sempra lng &amp; midstream 123 123 155 parent and other (2) 9 (1 ) (6 ) total operation and maintenance $ 3,309 $ 3,096 $ 2,976 (1) as adjusted for the retrospective adoption of asu 2017-07, which we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. (2) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. our o&amp;m increased by $213 million ( 7% ) to $3.3 billion in 2018 primarily due to: $139 million increase at socalgas which included: $160 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs for which costs incurred are recovered in revenue (refundable program expenses), offset by $20 million aliso canyon litigation reserves in 2017; $34 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included: $22 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs, and $11 million reimbursement of litigation costs in 2017 associated with the arbitration ruling over the songs replacement steam generators, as we discuss in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $16 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2018 and selling costs associated with the sale of assets. our o&amp;m increased by $120 million ( 4% ) to $3.1 billion in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $85 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to the consolidation of ienova pipelines and ventika in 2016, from the growth in sempra mexico's businesses, and from scheduled major maintenance at tdm in the second quarter of 2017; $83 million increase at socalgas, which included: $54 million higher non-refundable operating costs primarily associated with higher safety-related maintenance and inspection activity, as well as other labor, contract services and administrative and support costs, and $20 million aliso canyon litigation reserves in 2017; and $19 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2016 and higher general and administrative and development costs; offset by $38 million decrease at sdg&amp;e, which included: $33 million lower expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, $12 million decrease at otay mesa vie primarily due to scheduled major maintenance in 2016 at the omec plant, and $11 million reimbursement of litigation costs associated with the arbitration ruling over the songs replacement steam generators, offset by $16 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs; and $32 million decrease at sempra lng &amp; midstream, $25 million of which was due to the sale of energysouth in september 2016. write-off of wildfire regulatory asset in the third quarter of 2017, sdg&amp;e recorded a $351 million charge for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with wildfire costs. we discuss this further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 82 impairment losses in june 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream recognized a $1.3 billion impairment loss for certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. held for sale, and in december 2018, we reduced the impairment loss to $1.1 billion, as we discuss in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra mexico reduced the carrying value of tdm by recognizing noncash impairment charges of $71 million in 2017 and $131 million in 2016, as we discuss in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2016, socalgas recorded a $21 million impairment of assets related to the southern gas system reliability project. gain on sale of assets in december 2018, sempra renewables recognized a $513 million gain on the sale of all its operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects and its 50-percent interest in a wind power generation facility to a subsidiary of con ed. in 2016, sempra lng &amp; midstream recognized a $130 million gain on the sale of energysouth. we discuss these divestitures in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. remeasurement of equity method investment in the third quarter of 2016, sempra mexico recorded a $617 million noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of its 50-percent equity interest in ienova pipelines. we discuss the transaction further in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other income, net as part of our central risk management function, we enter into foreign currency derivatives to hedge sempra mexico parent's exposure to movements in the mexican peso from its controlling interest in ienova. the gains/losses associated with these derivatives are included in other income, net, as described below, and partially mitigate the transactional effects of foreign currency and inflation included in income taxes and in earnings from sempra mexico's equity method investments. we discuss policies governing our risk management in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk below. other income, net, decreased by $161 million to $72 million in 2018 primarily due to: $70 million decrease in equity-related afudc mainly from completion of pipeline projects at sempra mexico in 2017; $6 million investment losses in 2018 compared to $56 million investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; $16 million higher non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2018, including $10 million at sdg&amp;e and $5 million at socalgas; and $10 million lower net gains from interest rate and foreign exchange instruments and foreign currency transactions primarily due to: $46 million lower gains in 2018 on foreign currency derivatives as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso, offset by $32 million lower losses in 2018 on a mexican peso-denominated loan to the img jv, which is offset in equity earnings. in 2017 compared to 2016 , other income, net, increased by $95 million ( 69% ) to $233 million and included the following activity: $47 million net gains in 2017 on interest rate and foreign exchange instruments, compared to $32 million net losses in 2016 primarily as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso; $52 million increase in equity-related afudc, including: $17 million increase at sdg&amp;e, and $32 million increase at sempra mexico primarily from the ojinaga and san isidro pipeline projects; and $33 million higher investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; offset by $34 million higher foreign currency transactional losses in 2017, primarily related to a mexican peso-denominated note receivable due from img jv; and $21 million non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2017 compared to a $6 million credit in 2016. we provide further details of the components of other income, net, in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. income taxes the table below shows the income tax expense and etrs for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. 83 income tax expense and effective income tax rates (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 sempra energy consolidated: income tax expense $ 96 $ 1,276 $ 389 income before income taxes and equity earnings of unconsolidated entities $ 1,046 $ 1,551 $ 1,824 equity (losses) earnings, before income tax (1) (236 ) 34 6 pretax income $ 810 $ 1,585 $ 1,830 effective income tax rate 12 % 81 % 21 % sdg&amp;e: income tax expense $ 173 $ 155 $ 280 income before income taxes $ 849 $ 576 $ 845 effective income tax rate 20 % 27 % 33 % socalgas: income tax expense $ 92 $ 160 $ 143 income before income taxes $ 493 $ 557 $ 493 effective income tax rate 19 % 29 % 29 % (1) we discuss how we recognize equity earnings in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. on december 22, 2017, the tcja was signed into law. as discussed below, we recorded additional income tax expense of $870 million from the effects of the tcja in 2017, which significantly impacts our following comparisons of income tax expense from 2018 to 2017 and 2017 to 2016. following are the key provisions of the tcja that impact us: lower u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate: the tcja reduced the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective january 1, 2018. generally, we expect the resultant benefit of lower income tax expense at sdg&amp;e and socalgas to be allocated to ratepayers. deemed repatriation: the tcja imposed a one-time tax for deemed repatriation of cumulative undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries, which we recorded in 2017. under the deemed repatriation provision of the tcja, a u.s. shareholder must include in taxable income its pro-rata share of cumulative foreign undistributed earnings, which were taxed at 15.5 percent on cash or cash equivalents and 8 percent on cumulative other earnings. territorial tax system: the tcja adopted a territorial system of taxation that replaced the previous worldwide taxation approach. the tcja provides for a 100-percent-dividends-received deduction for foreign source dividends, effectively resulting in no federal income taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings after 2017. full expensing of depreciable property: property placed in service after september 27, 2017 is generally eligible for full expensing. regulated public utilities, including the california utilities, are not eligible for full expensing after december 31, 2017. limitation of interest deductions: the tcja limits the deduction for interest expense that exceeds adjusted taxable income as defined in the irc. any disallowed interest expense can be carried forward indefinitely. the california utilities are excepted from this limitation. executive compensation deduction limitation: the tcja amended the definition of a covered employee and eliminated certain exceptions previously allowed under prior law, limiting the annual deductible compensation expense for a covered employee to $1 million. nol deductions: u.s. federal nol carryforwards generated in years starting in 2018 are limited to 80 percent of taxable income. the tcja permits new nols to be carried forward indefinitely, but no longer allows any carryback. global intangible low-taxed income: the tcja included a new requirement that foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign subsidiaries be included as current taxable income of their u.s. shareholder. we recorded the effects of the tcja in 2017 using our best estimates and the information available to us through the date those financial statements were issued. in 2018, we adjusted our 2017 provisional estimates and completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the tcja as permitted by asu 2018-05, which we describe in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 84 we discuss these 2017 tcja impacts and related 2018 provisional adjustments further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have not recorded deferred income taxes with respect to remaining basis differences of approximately $1 billion between financial statement and income tax investment amounts in our non-u.s. subsidiaries because we consider them to be indefinitely reinvested as of december 31, 2018. it is currently not practicable to determine the hypothetical amount of tax that might be payable if the underlying basis differences were realized. on january 25, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are evaluating the effects of the planned sale on our indefinite reinvestment assertion and expect to record any impacts to our tax provision in the first quarter of 2019. sempra energy consolidated sempra energy's income tax expense decreased in 2018 due to a lower etr and lower pretax income. pretax income in 2018 was impacted by the impairments at our sempra lng &amp; midstream and sempra renewables segments offset by the gain from the sale of assets at sempra renewables, while the pretax income in 2017 was impacted by the write-off of sdg&amp;e's wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $870 million income tax expense in 2017 from the effects of the tcja, as follows: $688 million related to future repatriation of foreign earnings, including $328 million of u.s. federal income tax expense pertaining to the deemed repatriation tax and $360 million u.s. state and non-u.s. withholding tax expense on our expected future repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings estimated for deemed repatriation, and $182 million from remeasurement of our u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35 percent to 21 percent; $131 million income tax benefit in 2018 resulting from the reduced outside basis difference in sempra lng &amp; midstream as a result of the impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets; $98 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; and $42 million lower income tax expense from foreign currency and inflation effects, primarily as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso; offset by $85 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust 2017 provisional estimates for the effects of the tcja; $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. sempra energy's income tax expense increased in 2017 compared to 2016 due to a higher etr, partially offset by lower pretax income. the higher etr was primarily due to: $870 million income tax expense in 2017 from the effects of the tcja, as discussed above; $62 million income tax expense in 2017, compared to $38 million income tax benefit in 2016, from foreign currency and inflation effects, primarily as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso in 2017; and $34 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation; offset by $33 million income tax benefit in 2017, compared to $3 million income tax expense in 2016, related to the resolution of prior years' income tax items. we report as part of our pretax results the income or loss attributable to nci. however, we do not record income taxes for a portion of this income or loss, as some of our entities with nci are currently treated as partnerships for income tax purposes, and thus we are only liable for income taxes on the portion of the earnings that are allocated to us. our pretax income, however, includes 100 percent of these entities. as our entities with nci grow, and as we may continue to invest in such entities, the impact on our etr may become more significant. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's income tax expense increased in 2018 due to higher pretax income partially offset by a lower etr. the pretax income in 2017 included the $351 million ($208 million after tax) write-off of the wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $119 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; and $28 million deferred income tax expense in 2017 from remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35 percent to 21 percent, primarily from the deferred income tax asset relating to the impairment of the songs steam generator replacement project in prior years; offset by $19 million lower income tax benefit in 2018 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. 85 sdg&amp;e's income tax expense decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 due to lower pretax income and a lower etr. the pretax income in 2017 included the $351 million ($208 million after tax) write-off of wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $12 million higher income tax benefit in 2017 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items; and higher flow-through deductions in 2017; offset by $28 million deferred income tax expense from remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax balances; and $7 million income tax benefit in 2016 associated with excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation. socalgas socalgas' income tax expense decreased in 2018 due to lower pretax income and a lower etr. the lower etr was primarily due to: $69 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; offset by $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. socalgas' income tax expense increased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to higher pretax income. peruvian tax legislation in december 2016, the peruvian president, through a presidential decree, enacted income tax law changes that became effective on january 1, 2017. among other changes, the new law imposed an increase in the corporate income tax rate from 28 percent in 2016 to 29.5 percent in 2017 and beyond, as well as a decrease in the dividend withholding tax rate from 6.8 percent in 2016 to 5 percent in 2017 and beyond. as a result of the increase to the peruvian corporate income tax rate to 29.5 percent, we remeasured our peruvian deferred income tax balances, resulting in $17 million income tax expense recorded in 2016. equity earnings equity earnings increased by $ 100 million to $176 million in 2018 primarily due to: $371 million equity earnings, net of income tax, from our investment in oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018; offset by $200 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain wind equity method investments at sempra renewables that are included in our plan of sale; $65 million impairment of our rbs sempra commodities equity method investment; and $16 million lower equity earnings from the img jv at sempra mexico, which includes $32 million lower foreign currency gains in 2018 on its mexican peso-denominated loans from its jv owners, which is fully offset in other income, net. the decrease of $8 million to $76 million in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to: $64 million equity earnings, net of income tax, in 2016 from ienova pipelines, including $19 million from den, prior to ienova's acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in ienova pipelines in september 2016; and $13 million equity losses, net of income tax, in 2017 from den, prior to ienova's acquisition of the remaining 50-percent interest in den in november 2017, compared to $5 million of equity earnings, net of income tax, in 2016, primarily from foreign currency and inflation effects; offset by $45 million equity earnings, net of income tax, from the img jv, primarily due to afudc equity and foreign currency effects, offset by interest expense; and $26 million equity losses in 2016 from sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment in rockies express, including a $44 million impairment charge in the first quarter of 2016. earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests earnings attributable to nci were $76 million for 2018 compared to $94 million for 2017 . the net change of $18 million included: $36 million losses attributable to nci at sempra lng &amp; midstream in 2018 due to the net impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets; and $35 million higher pretax losses attributed to tax equity investors at sempra renewables; offset by $59 million higher earnings attributable to nci at sempra mexico in 2018. 86 earnings attributable to nci were $94 million for 2017 compared to $148 million for 2016 . the net change of $54 million included: $60 million at sempra mexico, primarily due to: $50 million lower earnings attributable to nci as a result of the decrease in earnings, excluding the effects of foreign currency and inflation, as we discuss above in segment results sempra mexico, and $28 million losses attributable to nci in 2017 from foreign currency and inflation effects without the corresponding benefit from foreign currency derivatives that are not subject to nci compared to $14 million earnings in 2016, offset by $32 million higher earnings attributable to nci, excluding the effects of foreign currency and inflation, from the decrease in our controlling interest from 81.1 percent to 66.4 percent following ienova's equity offering in october 2016, which we discuss in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; and $19 million higher pretax losses attributed to tax equity investors at sempra renewables in 2017; offset by $14 million earnings at sdg&amp;e compared to $5 million losses in 2016, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses as a result of scheduled major maintenance at the omec plant in 2016. mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends in the year ended december 31, 2018, our board of directors declared dividends of $105 million and $20 million, respectively, on our series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock. transactions with affiliates we provide information about our related party transactions in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations because our operations in south america and our natural gas distribution utility in mexico use their local currency as their functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at average exchange rates for the period for consolidation in sempra energy consolidated's results of operations. foreign currency translation any difference in average exchange rates used for the translation of income statement activity from year to year can cause a variance in sempra energy's comparative results of operations. changes in foreign currency translation rates between years resulted in a negligible impact in 2018 compared to 2017 and $6 million higher earnings at sempra south american utilities in 2017 compared to 2016. transactional impacts some income statement activities at our foreign operations and their jvs are also impacted by transactional gains and losses, which we discuss below. a summary of these foreign currency transactional gains and losses included in our reported results is as follows: transactional gains (losses) from foreign currency and inflation (dollars in millions) total reported amounts transactional gains (losses) included in reported amounts years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 other income, net (1) $ 72 $ 233 $ 138 $ $ 14 $ (33 ) income tax expense (96 ) (1,276 ) (389 ) (20 ) (62 ) 38 equity earnings 176 76 84 (15 ) 14 23 net income 1,126 351 1,519 (35 ) (53 ) 39 earnings attributable to common shares 924 256 1,370 (21 ) (25 ) 25 (1) total reported amounts for 2017 and 2016 were adjusted for the retrospective adoption of asu 2017-07, which we discuss in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 87 foreign currency exchange rate and inflation impacts on income taxes and related hedging activity our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated cash balances, receivables, payables and debt (monetary assets and liabilities) that are affected by mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. as a result, fluctuations in both the currency exchange rate for the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar and mexican inflation may expose us to fluctuations in income tax expense, other income, net and equity earnings. we use foreign currency derivatives as a means to manage exposure to the currency exchange rate on our monetary assets and liabilities. however, we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense caused by exchange rate fluctuations and inflation. the derivative activity impacts other income, net. the income tax expense of our south american subsidiaries is similarly impacted by inflation and currency exchange rate movements related to u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. other transactions although the financial statements of most of our mexican subsidiaries and jvs (energ a sierra ju rez and img) have the u.s. dollar as the functional currency, some transactions may be denominated in the local currency; such transactions are remeasured into u.s. dollars. this remeasurement creates transactional gains and losses that are included in other income, net, for our consolidated subsidiaries and in equity earnings for our jvs (including ienova pipelines until september 26, 2016 and den until november 15, 2017). we utilize cross-currency swaps that exchange our mexican peso-denominated principal and interest payments into the u.s. dollar and swap mexican variable interest rates for u.s. fixed interest rates. the impacts of these cross-currency swaps are offset in oci and are reclassified from aoci into earnings through interest expense as settlements occur. certain of our mexican pipeline projects (namely los ramones i at ienova pipelines and los ramones norte within our tag jv) generate revenue based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in mexico, with contracts denominated in mexican pesos that are indexed to the u.s. dollar, adjusted annually for inflation and fluctuation in the exchange rate. the resultant gains and losses from remeasuring the local currency amounts into u.s. dollars and the settlement of foreign currency forwards and swaps related to these contracts are included in revenues: energy-related businesses or equity earnings. our jvs in chile (eletrans) use the u.s. dollar as the functional currency, but have certain construction commitments that are denominated in clf. eletrans entered into forward exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency exchange risk of the clf relative to the u.s. dollar. the forward exchange contracts settle based on anticipated payments to vendors, generally monthly, and ended in 2018, with activity recorded in equity earnings. capital resources and liquidity overview we expect to meet our cash requirements through cash flows from operations, unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from recent and planned asset sales, borrowings under our credit facilities, distributions from our equity method investments, issuances of debt and equity securities, project financing and other equity sales, including partnering jvs. our lines of credit provide liquidity and support commercial paper. as we discuss in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, sempra energy, sempra global and the california utilities each have five-year revolving credit facilities expiring in 2020. the table below shows the amount of available funds, including available unused credit on these three credit facilities, at december 31, 2018 . our foreign operations had additional general purpose credit facilities aggregating $1.8 billion , with approximately $0.8 billion available unused credit at december 31, 2018 . 88 available funds at december 31, 2018 (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 190 $ 8 $ 18 available unused credit (2)(3) 4,219 453 453 (1) amounts at sempra energy consolidated included $141 million held in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we discuss repatriation in results of operations changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes above. (2) available unused credit is the total available on sempra energy's, sempra global's and the california utilities' credit facilities that we discuss in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. borrowings on the shared line of credit at sdg&amp;e and socalgas are limited to $750 million for each utility and a combined total of $1 billion. the available balance at each of the california utilities assumes no additional borrowings by the other. (3) because the commercial paper programs are supported by these lines, we reflect the amount of commercial paper outstanding as a reduction to the available unused credit. sempra energy consolidated we believe that these available funds, combined with cash flows from operations, proceeds from recent and planned asset sales, distributions from our equity method investments, issuances of debt and equity securities, project financing and other equity sales, including partnering in jvs, will be adequate to fund our current operations, including to: finance capital expenditures; meet liquidity requirements; fund dividends; fund new business or asset acquisitions or start-ups; fund capital contribution requirements; repay maturing long-term debt; and fund expenditures related to the natural gas leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. sempra energy and the california utilities currently have ready access to the long-term debt markets and are not currently constrained in their ability to borrow at reasonable rates. however, changing economic conditions and our financing activities could negatively affect the availability and cost of both short-term and long-term financing. also, cash flows from operations may be impacted by the timing of commencement and completion of large projects. if cash flows from operations were to be significantly reduced or we were unable to borrow under acceptable terms, we would likely first reduce or postpone discretionary capital expenditures (not related to safety) and investments in new businesses. if these measures were necessary, they would primarily impact our sempra mexico and sempra lng &amp; midstream businesses before we would reduce funds necessary for the ongoing needs of our utilities. we used the $1.6 billion in cash proceeds received from sempra renewables' sale to a subsidiary of con ed, which we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, to temporarily pay down commercial paper, pending the close of oncor's and our agreements to purchase infrareit and a 50-percent interest in sharyland holdings, lp, respectively, as described below. we monitor our ability to finance the needs of our operating, investing and financing activities in a manner consistent with our intention to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure . we have significant investments in several trusts to provide for future payments of pensions and other postretirement benefits, and nuclear decommissioning. changes in asset values, which are dependent on the activity in the equity and fixed income markets, have not affected the trust funds' abilities to make required payments. however, changes in asset values, along with a number of other factors such as changes to discount rates, assumed rates of return, mortality tables, and regulations, may impact funding requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit plans and sdg&amp;e's ndt. at the california utilities, funding requirements are generally recoverable in rates. we discuss matters regarding sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas common stock dividends below in dividends. short-term borrowings we use short-term debt primarily to meet liquidity requirements, fund shareholder dividends, and temporarily finance capital expenditures, acquisitions or start-ups. our corporate short-term, unsecured promissory notes, or commercial paper, were our primary sources of short-term debt funding in 2018 . our california utilities use short-term debt primarily to meet working capital needs. the following table shows selected statistics for our commercial paper borrowings for 2018 : 89 commercial paper statistics (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas amount outstanding at december 31, 2018 $ 1,216 $ 291 $ 256 weighted-average interest rate at december 31, 2018 2.786 % 2.968 % 2.581 % maximum month-end amount outstanding during 2018 (1) $ 3,913 $ 458 $ 345 monthly weighted-average amount outstanding during 2018 $ 2,556 $ 235 $ 179 monthly weighted-average interest rate during 2018 2.358 % 1.969 % 1.987 % (1) the largest amount outstanding at the end of the last day of any month during the year. impacts of the tcja in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded the effects of the tcja, resulting in an increase to income tax expense of $870 million at sempra energy consolidated. in 2018, we recorded $85 million income tax expense when we adjusted our 2017 provisional estimates. although there was no cash impact in 2017 or 2018, these effects represent potential future tax payments or other cash outflow and, in the case of sdg&amp;e and socalgas, the remeasurement of their u.s. federal deferred income tax balances will result in cash outflow primarily for refunds to ratepayers in the future. we used a portion of our existing nols to offset the deemed repatriation tax. certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted as a result of certain provisions of the tcja and in particular by an anticipated decrease in income tax reimbursement payments to us from sdg&amp;e and socalgas due the reduction in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate to 21 percent. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100-percent expensing of capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may also influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt. as we discuss in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and above in changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, our analysis and interpretation of the effects of the tcja and our assessment of strategies to manage the cash and earnings impacts on our businesses are ongoing. loans to/from affiliates at december 31, 2018 , sempra energy has outstanding loans to unconsolidated affiliates totaling $688 million and a $37 million loan from an unconsolidated affiliate, which we discuss in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. california utilities sdg&amp;e and socalgas expect that the available unused credit described above, cash flows from operations, and debt issuances will continue to be adequate to fund their respective operations. the california utilities manage their capital structure and pay dividends when appropriate and as approved by their respective boards of directors. as we discuss in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, changes in balancing accounts for significant costs at sdg&amp;e and socalgas, particularly a change between over- and undercollected status, may have a significant impact on cash flows, as these changes generally represent the difference between when costs are incurred and when they are ultimately recovered in rates through billings to customers. sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' balancing accounts include some or all of the following: energy resource recovery balancing account (erra) tracks the difference between amounts billed to customers and the actual cost of electric fuel and purchased power. sdg&amp;e's erra balance was undercollected by $50 million and $51 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. electric distribution fixed cost account (edfca) tracks the difference between amounts billed to customers and the authorized margin and other costs allocated to electric distribution customers. sdg&amp;e's edfca balance was undercollected by $43 million and $112 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the decrease in undercollection was mainly due to customer consumption and electric rates alignment. core fixed cost account (cfca) tracks the difference between amounts billed to customers and the authorized margin and other costs allocated to core customers. because mild weather experienced in 2018 and 2017 resulted in lower natural gas 90 consumption compared to authorized levels, sdg&amp;e's cfca balance was undercollected by $51 million and $26 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and socalgas' cfca balance was undercollected by $177 million and $164 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e has a tolling agreement to purchase power generated at omec, a 605-mw generating facility. a related agreement provided sdg&amp;e with the option to purchase omec at a predetermined price (referred to as the call option). sdg&amp;e's call option has expired unexercised. under the terms of the agreement, omec llc can require sdg&amp;e to purchase the power plant for $280 million, subject to adjustments, on or before october 3, 2019 (referred to as the put option), or upon earlier termination of the ppa. in october 2018, sdg&amp;e and omec llc signed a resource adequacy capacity agreement for a term that would commence at the expiration of the current tolling agreement in october 2019 and end in august 2024. the capacity agreement was approved by omec llc's lenders in december 2018, but is contingent upon receiving final and non-appealable approval from the cpuc before the expiration of the put option on april 1, 2019. if a timely final and non-appealable approval of the resource adequacy capacity agreement is received, omec llc will waive its right to exercise the put option and, as a result, sdg&amp;e would no longer consolidate otay mesa vie. sdg&amp;e received cpuc approval of the resource adequacy capacity agreement in february 2019 and the period for appeal expires on march 25, 2019. socalgas aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak we provide information on the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in factors influencing future performance below, and in item 1a. risk factors. the costs of defending against the related civil and criminal lawsuits and cooperating with related investigations, and any damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, costs and other penalties, if awarded or imposed, as well as costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. also, higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable in customer rates, which may have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. the costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate local community impacts are significant and may increase, and to the extent not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra texas utility acquisition of oncor holdings as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, on march 9, 2018, sempra energy completed transactions resulting in the acquisition of an indirect ownership of an 80.25-percent interest in oncor for a total purchase price paid of $9.57 billion, including merger consideration of $9.45 billion. as we discuss in notes 7 , 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, our registered public offerings of common stock (not including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements), series a preferred stock and long-term debt completed in january 2018 provided total initial net proceeds of approximately $7.0 billion for partial funding of the merger consideration, of which approximately $800 million was used to pay down commercial paper, pending the closing of the merger. in march 2018, to fund a portion of the merger consideration, we issued approximately $900 million (net of underwriting discounts) of common equity through settlement of forward sales under the forward sale agreements and raised the remaining portion of the merger consideration through issuances of approximately $2.6 billion in commercial paper, with a weighted-average maturity of 47 days and a weighted-average interest rate of 2.2 percent per annum. 91 upon closing of the merger, our funding of the total purchase price was comprised of approximately 31 percent equity and approximately 69 percent debt, which does not include shares that have since been settled and that we expect to settle in our common stock pursuant to forward sale agreements. we intend to ultimately fund the total purchase price with approximately 65 percent equity and approximately 35 percent debt. in june 2018, we issued approximately $800 million (net of underwriting discounts) of common equity through settlement of forward sales under the forward sale agreements and used the proceeds from these settlements to repay long-term debt maturing in june 2018 and to repay commercial paper used to fund a portion of the merger consideration. in july 2018, we raised additional net proceeds of approximately $729 million through sales of $565 million of series b preferred stock and $164 million of common stock (not including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements). the january 2018 and july 2018 forward sale agreements permit us to elect cash settlement or net share settlement for all or a portion of our obligations under the forward sale agreements. we expect to settle the forward sale agreements entirely by the physical delivery of shares of our common stock in exchange for cash proceeds. as of february 26, 2019 , at the initial forward sale price of approximately $105.07 per share in january 2018 and approximately $111.87 per share in july 2018, we expect that the net proceeds from full physical settlement of the remaining forward sale agreements would be approximately $1.8 billion (net of underwriting discounts, but before deducting equity issuance costs, and subject to certain adjustments pursuant to the forward sale agreements). assuming physical settlement of all outstanding forward sales agreements, we will have achieved funding the total purchase price with approximately 65 percent equity. if we do not physically settle all the forward settlement agreements, we may use cash from operations and proceeds from asset sales in place of some equity financing. some of the equity financing subsequent to the merger (including proceeds we receive from the settlement of the remaining portion of our forward sale agreements and from other sales of common stock) may be used to repay indebtedness incurred to finance a portion of the total purchase price. if we were to elect cash settlement or net share settlement, the amount of cash proceeds we receive upon settlement would differ, perhaps substantially, or we may not receive any cash proceeds or we may deliver cash (in an amount which could be significant) or shares of our common stock to the forward purchasers. we expect to settle the remaining portion of the forward sale agreements in one or more settlements no later than december 15, 2019, which is the final settlement date under the agreements. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may be required to make additional investments in oncor, or if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may be required to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. commensurate with our ownership interest, we contributed to oncor $230 million in cash in 2018. in 2018, oncor's board of directors declared dividends of $209 million, of which $167 million is oncor holdings' commensurate share. in 2018, oncor holdings distributed the $167 million to sempra energy in the form of dividends of $149 million and tax sharing payments of $18 million. in february 2019, oncor's board of directors declared dividends of $71 million and oncor holdings' board of directors declared dividends of $54 million. in february 2019, sempra energy contributed $56 million to oncor. we provide additional discussion regarding the merger and financing risks below in factors influencing future performance, and in item 1a. risk factors. on october 18, 2018, sempra energy committed to make a capital contribution to oncor for oncor to fund its acquisition of infrareit, which acquisition we expect will close in mid-2019. we estimate the capital contribution to be $1,025 million, excluding our share of approximately $40 million for a management agreement termination fee, as well as other customary transaction costs incurred by infrareit that would be borne by oncor as part of the acquisition. the capital contribution is contingent on the satisfaction of customary conditions, including the substantially simultaneous closing of the transactions contemplated by the infrareit merger agreement. we discuss these transactions in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below in factors influencing future performance. sempra south american utilities we expect to fund operations at chilquinta energ a and luz del sur and dividends at luz del sur with available funds, including credit facilities, funds internally generated by those businesses, issuances of corporate bonds and other external borrowings. 92 on january 25, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to market and sell our south american businesses. we expect to complete the sales process by the end of 2019. sempra mexico we expect to fund operations and dividends at ienova with available funds, including credit facilities, and funds internally generated by the sempra mexico businesses, as well as funds from ienova's securities issuances, project financing, interim funding from the parent or affiliates, and partnering in jvs. in 2018, 2017 and 2016, ienova paid dividends of $71 million, $67 million and $26 million, respectively, to its minority shareholders. ienova's shareholders approved the formation of a fund for ienova to repurchase its own shares of common stock for a maximum amount of $250 million in u.s. dollars in 2018. repurchases shall not exceed ienova's total net profits, including retained earnings, as stated in their 2017 financial statements. in the fourth quarter of 2018, ienova repurchased 2,000,000 shares of its outstanding common stock held by nci for approximately $7 million , resulting in an increase in sempra energy's ownership interest in ienova from 66.4 percent to 66.5 percent . in february 2019, ienova repurchased an additional 1,600,000 shares for approximately $6 million . sempra renewables as we discuss in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below in factors influencing future performance, on june 25, 2018, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our entire portfolio of u.s. wind and u.s. solar assets. in december 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of all its operating solar assets, its solar and battery storage development projects, and one wind generation facility for $1.6 billion. in february 2019, sempra renewables entered into an agreement to sell its remaining wind assets and investments for $551 million, subject to working capital adjustments and customary closing conditions. we expect to complete the sale in the second quarter of 2019. sempra lng &amp; midstream on february 7, 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. sempra lng &amp; midstream received cash proceeds of $328 million (subject to working capital adjustments and sempra lng &amp; midstream's purchase for $20 million of the 9.1-percent minority interest in bay gas immediately prior to and included as part of the sale), which we discuss in item 1. business and in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we expect sempra lng &amp; midstream to require funding for the development and expansion of its remaining portfolio of projects, which may be financed through a combination of operating cash flow, funding from the parent, project financing and partnering in jvs. sempra lng &amp; midstream, through its interest in cameron lng jv, is developing a natural gas liquefaction export facility at the cameron lng jv terminal. the majority of the current three-train liquefaction project is project-financed, with most or all of the remainder of the capital requirements to be provided by the project partners, including sempra energy, through equity contributions under the project equity agreements. we expect that our remaining equity requirements to complete the project will be met by a combination of our share of cash generated from each liquefaction train as it comes on line and additional cash contributions. sempra energy signed guarantees for 50.2 percent of cameron lng jv's obligations under the financing agreements for a maximum amount of up to $3.9 billion. the project financing and guarantees became effective on october 1, 2014, the effective date of the jv formation. the guarantees will terminate upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. we discuss cameron lng jv and the jv financing further in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, below in factors influencing future performance, and in item 1a. risk factors. 93 cash flows from operating activities cash provided by operating activities (dollars in millions) 2018 2018 change 2017 2017 change 2016 sempra energy consolidated $ 3,447 $ (178 ) (5 )% $ 3,625 $ 1,314 57 % $ 2,311 sdg&amp;e 1,584 37 2 1,547 224 17 1,323 socalgas 1,013 (293 ) (22 ) 1,306 635 95 671 sempra energy consolidated cash provided by operating activities at sempra energy decreased in 2018 primarily due to: $43 million net increase in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2018 compared to a $188 million net decrease in 2017. the $43 million net increase in 2018 primarily includes $142 million of additional accruals, partially offset by $97 million in insurance proceeds received. we discuss the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility leak further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $198 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to higher interest payments in 2018; $144 million increase in accounts receivable in 2018 compared to a $17 million decrease in 2017; and $258 million purchases of ghg allowances in 2018 compared to $97 million in 2017; offset by $83 million decrease in income taxes receivable in 2018 compared to a $70 million increase in 2017; $124 million decrease in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) at sdg&amp;e in 2018 compared to a $28 million increase in 2017. over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts reflect the difference between customer billings and recorded or cpuc-authorized costs. these differences are required to be balanced over time; $149 million of dividends received from oncor holdings in 2018; and $143 million increase in deferred revenue requirement due to the tcja at the california utilities in 2018. cash provided by operating activities at sempra energy increased in 2017 primarily due to: $1.1 billion higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016, primarily due to improved results at our operating segments; $188 million net decrease in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $281 million net increase in 2016. the $188 million net decrease in 2017 primarily includes $300 million in insurance proceeds received, offset by $112 million of additional accruals; $31 million net increase in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $221 million net decrease in 2016. the $31 million net increase in 2017 includes $130 million of additional accruals (including $20 million of litigation reserves charged to earnings), offset by $99 million of cash paid; $66 million decrease in ndt at sdg&amp;e in 2017 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in the current year; and $17 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $42 million increase in 2016; offset by $54 million increase in net overcollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) at socalgas in 2017 compared to a $293 million increase in 2016; $145 million increase in permanent pipeline capacity release liability at sempra lng &amp; midstream in 2016; $28 million increase in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) at sdg&amp;e in 2017 compared to a $55 million decrease in 2016; $70 million increase in income taxes receivable in 2017 compared to a $3 million decrease in 2016; and $83 million increase in accounts payable in 2017 compared to a $122 million increase in 2016. sdg&amp;e cash provided by operating activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2018 primarily due to: $124 million decrease in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) in 2018 compared to a $28 million increase in 2017; $30 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2018 compared to a $76 million increase in 2017; and $75 million increase in deferred revenue requirement due to the tcja in 2018; offset by 94 $23 million decrease in income taxes receivable in 2018 compared to a $136 million decrease in 2017, primarily due to timing of tax payments; $96 million purchases of ghg allowances in 2018 compared to $15 million in 2017; $1 million decrease in accounts payable in 2018 compared to a $75 million increase in 2017; and $22 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2018 compared to 2017. cash provided by operating activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 primarily due to: $136 million decrease in income taxes receivable in 2017 compared to a $115 million increase in 2016, primarily due to timing of tax payments; $66 million decrease in ndt in 2017 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in the current year; $15 million in purchases of ghg allowances in 2017 compared to $58 million in 2016; and $75 million increase in accounts payable in 2017 compared to a $39 million increase in 2016; offset by $28 million increase in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) in 2017 compared to a $55 million decrease in 2016; $76 million increase in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $31 million increase in 2016; and $23 million lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016 . socalgas cash provided by operating activities at socalgas decreased in 2018 primarily due to: $43 million net increase in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2018 compared to a $188 million net decrease in 2017. the $43 million net increase in 2018 primarily includes $142 million of additional accruals, partially offset by $97 million in insurance proceeds received; $87 million increase in accounts receivable in 2018 compared to a $72 million decrease in 2017; and $142 million purchases of ghg allowances in 2018 compared to $78 million in 2017; offset by $68 million increase in deferred revenue requirement due to the tcja in 2018; and $2 million increase in inventory in 2018 compared to a $66 million increase in 2017. cash provided by operating activities at socalgas increased in 2017 primarily due to: $ 188 million net decrease in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $281 million net increase in 2016. the $188 million net decrease in 2017 primarily includes $300 million in insurance proceeds received, offset by $112 million of additional accruals; $ 31 million net increase in reserve for aliso canyon costs in 2017 compared to a $221 million net decrease in 2016. the $31 million net increase in 2017 includes $130 million of additional accruals (including $20 million of litigation reserves charged to earnings), offset by $99 million of cash paid; $135 million higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings, in 2017 compared to 2016; $20 million net source of cash due to changes in other current assets and liabilities in 2017 compared to a $38 million net use of cash in 2016; and $ 72 million decrease in accounts receivable in 2017 compared to a $ 37 million decrease in 2016; offset by $54 million increase in net overcollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts included in regulatory assets) in 2017 compared to a $293 million increase in 2016; and $ 66 million increase in inventory in 2017 compared to a $ 4 million decrease in 2016. cash flows from investing activities cash used in investing activities (dollars in millions) 2018 2018 change 2017 2017 change 2016 sempra energy consolidated $ (12,557 ) $ 7,857 167 % $ (4,700 ) $ (135 ) (3 )% $ (4,835 ) sdg&amp;e (1,542 ) 27 2 (1,515 ) 191 14 (1,324 ) socalgas (1,531 ) 168 12 (1,363 ) 94 7 (1,269 ) 95 sempra energy consolidated cash used in investing activities at sempra energy increased in 2018 primarily due to : $10.1 billion increase in expenditures for investments and acquisitions, the details of which are included in the expenditures for investments and acquisitions table below; offset by $1.6 billion net proceeds received from the sale of certain of our non-utility u.s. renewables assets, as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements; $429 million lower advances to unconsolidated affiliates; and $165 million decrease in capital expenditures, the details of which are included in the expenditures for pp&amp;e table below. cash used in investing activities at sempra energy decreased in 2017 primarily due to: $1.2 billion decrease in expenditures for investments and acquisitions; and $265 million decrease in capital expenditures; offset by $506 million higher advances to unconsolidated affiliates, mainly to the img jv to finance construction of a natural gas marine pipeline; $443 million net proceeds received from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of its 25-percent interest in rockies express in 2016; $318 million net proceeds received from sempra lng &amp; midstream's sale of energysouth in 2016; and $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years. sdg&amp;e cash used in investing activities at sdg&amp;e in 2018 was comparable to 2017. cash used in investing activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 primarily due to: $156 million increase in capital expenditures; and $100 million decrease in ndt assets in 2016 as a result of cpuc authorization to withdraw trust funds for songs decommissioning costs incurred in prior years; offset by $31 million decrease in advances to sempra energy in 2017 compared to a $31 million increase in 2016. socalgas cash used in investing activities at socalgas increased in 2018 primarily due to a $171 million increase in capital expenditures. cash used in investing activities at socalgas increased in 2017 primarily due to: $50 million net decrease in advances to sempra energy in 2016; and $48 million increase in capital expenditures. capital expenditures and investments sempra energy consolidated expenditures for pp&amp;e 96 the following table summarizes capital expenditures for the last three years. expenditures for pp&amp;e (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 sdg&amp;e: improvements to electric and natural gas distribution systems, including certain pipeline safety and generation systems $ 1,020 $ 966 $ 727 improvements to electric transmission systems 496 527 513 psep 16 48 121 electric generation plants and equipment 10 14 38 socalgas: improvements to natural gas distribution, transmission and storage systems, and for certain pipeline safety 1,359 1,145 932 psep 168 194 292 advanced metering infrastructure 11 28 95 sempra south american utilities: improvements to electric transmission and distribution systems and generation projects in peru 157 151 134 improvements to electric transmission and distribution infrastructure in chile 83 93 60 sempra mexico: construction of renewables projects 172 6 construction of natural gas pipeline projects and other capital expenditures 113 242 330 construction of liquid fuels terminal 83 sempra renewables: construction of solar projects 45 364 637 construction of wind projects 6 133 198 sempra lng &amp; midstream: lng liquefaction development costs and cameron interstate pipeline expansion 28 18 98 other 3 2 19 parent and other 14 18 20 total $ 3,784 $ 3,949 $ 4,214 97 sempra energy consolidated investments and acquisitions the table below presents our investments in various jvs and other businesses. expenditures for investments and acquisitions (1) (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 sempra texas utility: oncor holdings acquisition $ 9,227 $ $ oncor holdings capital contributions 230 sempra south american utilities: ctng acquisition 208 eletrans 1 sempra mexico: den 147 ienova pipelines 1,078 img 80 72 100 ventika 242 manzanillo 16 other 4 sempra renewables: expenditures for wind projects 5 21 other 15 sempra lng &amp; midstream: cameron lng jv (2) 275 48 47 parent and other 331 2 1 total $ 10,376 $ 270 $ 1,504 (1) net of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash acquired. (2) includes capitalized interest of $47 million in each of 2018, 2017 and 2016 on sempra lng &amp; midstream's investment, as the jv has not commenced planned principal operations. 98 future construction expenditures and investments the amounts and timing of capital expenditures and certain investments are generally subject to approvals by various regulatory and other governmental and environmental bodies, including the cpuc and the ferc. in 2019, we expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $6.1 billion , as summarized in the following table. future construction expenditures and investments (dollars in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 sdg&amp;e: improvements to electric and natural gas distribution systems, including certain pipeline safety and generation systems $ 1,250 improvements to electric transmission systems 350 socalgas: improvements to natural gas distribution, transmission and storage systems, and for certain pipeline safety 1,250 psep 250 sempra texas utility: oncor holdings capital contributions 1,570 acquisition of 50-percent interest in sharyland holdings, lp. 110 sempra south american utilities: improvements to electric transmission and distribution systems and generation projects in peru 140 improvements to electric transmission and distribution infrastructure in chile 170 sempra mexico: construction of liquid fuels terminals 410 construction of natural gas pipeline projects and other capital expenditures 180 construction of renewables projects 160 sempra lng &amp; midstream: lng liquefaction development costs 250 total $ 6,090 we discuss significant capital projects, planned and in progress, at each of our segments in factors influencing future performance below. over the next five years, 2019 through 2023, and subject to the factors described below which could cause these estimates to vary substantially, sempra energy expects to make aggregate capital expenditures and investments of approximately $13.3 billion at the california utilities and $4.9 billion at its other subsidiaries. capital expenditure amounts include capitalized interest. at the california utilities, the amounts also include the portion of afudc related to debt, but exclude the portion of afudc related to equity. at sempra mexico the amounts also exclude afudc related to equity. we provide further details about afudc in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. periodically, we review our construction, investment and financing programs and revise them in response to changes in regulation, economic conditions, competition, customer growth, inflation, customer rates, the cost and availability of capital, and safety and environmental requirements. we discuss these considerations in more detail in notes 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our level of capital expenditures and investments in the next few years may vary substantially and will depend on the cost and availability of financing, regulatory approvals, changes in u.s. federal tax law and business opportunities providing desirable rates of return. we intend to finance our capital expenditures in a manner that will maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure. 99 cash flows from financing activities cash flows from financing activities (dollars in millions) 2018 2018 change 2017 2017 change 2016 sempra energy consolidated $ 9,006 $ 7,999 $ 1,007 $ (1,495 ) $ 2,502 sdg&amp;e (34 ) (11 ) (23 ) (1 ) (22 ) socalgas 528 475 53 (499 ) 552 sempra energy consolidated cash provided by financing activities at sempra energy increased in 2018 primarily due to: $4.7 billion higher issuances of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, primarily to fund the acquisition of our investment in oncor holdings in march 2018, as we discuss in notes 5 and 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, including; $3.8 billion for long-term debt ( $6.7 billion in 2018 compared to $2.9 billion in 2017), and $901 million for commercial paper and other short-term debt ( $2.5 billion in 2018 compared to $1.6 billion in 2017); $2.3 billion proceeds, net of offering costs, from issuances of mandatory convertible preferred stock in 2018; and $2.3 billion proceeds, net of offering costs, from issuances of common stock in 2018; offset by $710 million higher payments of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $792 million higher payments for long-term debt ( $1.7 billion in 2018 compared to $906 million in 2017), offset by $82 million lower payments for commercial paper and other short-term debt ( $1.8 billion in 2018 compared to $1.9 billion in 2017); and $211 million higher dividends paid in 2018, including $122 million for common stock and $89 million for mandatory convertible preferred stock. cash provided by financing activities at sempra energy decreased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $1.2 billion proceeds received in 2016 from the ienova follow-on common stock offerings, net of offering costs and sempra energy's participation; $743 million higher payments on debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $828 million higher payments of commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.9 billion in 2017 compared to $1.07 billion in 2016), offset by $85 million lower payments on long-term debt ($906 million in 2017 compared to $991 million in 2016); $36 million net decrease in short-term debt in 2017 compared to a $692 million net increase in 2016; $196 million net proceeds from tax equity funding from certain wind and solar power generation projects at sempra renewables in 2017 compared to $474 million in 2016; $69 million increase in common stock dividends paid in 2017; and $67 million increase in net distributions to nci; offset by $1.6 billion higher issuances of debt with maturities greater than 90 days, including: $1.4 billion for long-term debt ($2.9 billion in 2017 compared to $1.5 billion in 2016), and $172 million for commercial paper and other short-term debt ($1.6 billion in 2017 compared to $1.4 billion in 2016.) sdg&amp;e cash used in financing activities at sdg&amp;e in 2018 increased primarily due to: $215 million lower increase in short-term debt in 2018; and $10 million cash used in 2018 associated with otay mesa vie, including: $295 million early repayment of omec's project financing loan by omec llc, offset by $220 million issuance of long-term debt by omec llc, and $65 million capital contribution from omec llc to partially repay the $295 million project financing loan; offset by $200 million decrease in common dividends paid in 2018. cash used in financing activities at sdg&amp;e increased in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to: $275 million increase in common stock dividends paid in 2017; and 100 $100 million lower issuances of long-term debt in 2017; offset by $253 million net increase in short-term debt in 2017 compared to a $114 million net decrease in 2016. socalgas net cash provided by financing activities at socalgas increased in 2018 primarily due to: $949 million issuances of long-term debt in 2018; offset by $500 million payments on long-term debt in 2018. cash provided by financing activities at socalgas decreased in 2017 primarily due to a $499 million issuance of long-term debt in 2016. long-term debt long-term debt (1) (dollars in millions) weighted-average at december 31, 2018 december 31, maturity interest 2018 2017 2016 (in years) rate sempra energy consolidated $ 23,284 $ 17,872 $ 15,342 12.0 4.02 % sdg&amp;e 6,219 5,555 4,849 16.0 4.32 socalgas 3,430 2,986 2,982 18.1 3.89 (1) includes current portion of long-term debt. 101 issuances of long-term debt major issuances of long-term debt in the last three years included the following: issuances of long-term debt (dollars in millions) amount at issuance maturity 2018: sempra energy variable rate notes $ 500 2019 sempra energy 2.4% notes 500 2020 sempra energy variable rate notes 700 2021 sempra energy 2.9% notes 500 2023 sempra energy 3.4% notes 1,000 2028 sempra energy 3.8% notes 1,000 2038 sempra energy 4% notes 800 2048 sdg&amp;e omec llc variable-rate loan 220 2024 sdg&amp;e 4.15% first mortgage bonds 400 2048 socalgas 4.125% first mortgage bonds 400 2048 socalgas 4.3% first mortgage bonds 550 2049 luz del sur 7% corporate bonds 50 2028 luz del sur 4.3%-5.7% bank loans 107 2020-2021 2017: sempra energy variable rate notes 850 2021 sempra energy 3.25% notes 750 2027 sdg&amp;e 3.75% first mortgage bonds 400 2047 luz del sur 6.375% corporate bonds 50 2023 luz del sur 5.9375% corporate bonds 50 2027 sempra mexico 4.875% notes 540 2048 sempra mexico 3.75% notes 300 2028 2016: sempra energy 1.625% notes 500 2019 sdg&amp;e 2.50% first mortgage bonds 500 2026 socalgas 2.60% first mortgage bonds 500 2026 luz del sur 6.50% corporate bonds 50 2025 in 2018, sempra energy used a substantial portion of the net proceeds from long-term debt issuances to finance a portion of the merger consideration. the remaining proceeds were used primarily to repay outstanding commercial paper and short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. we discuss issuances of long-term debt further in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the california utilities used the proceeds from their issuances of long-term debt to repay commercial paper and for general working capital purposes. 102 payments on long-term debt major payments of principal on long-term debt in the last three years included the following: payments on long-term debt (dollars in millions) payments maturity 2018: sempra energy 6.15% notes $ 500 2018 sdg&amp;e omec llc variable-rate loan 295 2019 sdg&amp;e 1.65% first mortgage bonds 161 2018 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 36 2022 socalgas 5.45% first mortgage bonds 250 2018 socalgas 1.55% first mortgage bonds 250 2018 luz del sur 5.18%-6.41% bank loans 52 2018 sempra mexico variable-rate notes 69 2018 sempra mexico amortizing variable-rate notes 42 2026 sempra mexico amortizing fixed and variable-rate bank loans 21 2024-2032 2017: sempra energy 2.3% notes 600 2017 sdg&amp;e variable-rate first mortgage bonds 140 2017 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 36 2022 luz del sur 5.81%-5.97% corporate bonds 43 2017 sempra mexico amortizing fixed and variable-rate bank loans 52 2024-2032 2016: sempra energy 6.5% notes 750 2016 sdg&amp;e 5% industrial development revenue bonds 105 2027 sdg&amp;e 1.914% amortizing first mortgage bonds 35 2022 luz del sur 5.05%-6% bank loans 62 2016 in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we provide information about our lines of credit and additional information about debt activity. capital stock transactions sempra energy cash provided by issuances of common and preferred stock was: $4.5 billion in 2018 $ 47 million in 2017 $ 51 million in 2016 we discuss the 2018 issuances of mandatory convertible preferred stock and common stock in notes 13 and 14 , respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. dividends sempra energy sempra energy paid cash dividends on common stock of: $877 million in 2018 $755 million in 2017 $686 million in 2016 on december 18, 2018, sempra energy declared a quarterly dividend of $0.895 per share of common stock that was paid on january 15, 2019. 103 dividends declared have increased in each of the last three years due to an increase in the per-share quarterly dividends approved by our board of directors from $0.755 in 2016 ($3.02 annually) to $0.8225 in 2017 ($3.29 annually) to $0.895 in 2018 ($3.58 annually). on february 21, 2019, our board of directors approved an increase in sempra energy's quarterly common stock dividend to $0.9675 per share ($3.87 annually), the first of which is payable april 15, 2019. declarations of dividends on our common stock are made at the discretion of the board of directors. while we view dividends as an integral component of shareholder return, the amount of future dividends will depend on earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements, and other relevant factors at that time. in connection with the 2018 issuances of mandatory convertible preferred stock, we declared $125 million and paid $89 million of preferred stock dividends in 2018. in addition, on february 21, 2019, our board of directors declared quarterly dividends of $1.50 per share on our series a preferred stock and $1.6875 per share on our series b preferred stock, both payable on april 15, 2019. we discuss dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e in 2018, 2017 and 2016, sdg&amp;e paid dividends to enova and enova paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $250 million , $450 million and $175 million , respectively. sdg&amp;e's dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations, and could be impacted over the next few years in order for sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. enova, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of sdg&amp;e's outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by sdg&amp;e to enova and dividends paid by enova to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. socalgas socalgas declared and paid common stock dividends to pe and pe paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $50 million in 2018. as a result of socalgas' capital investment program of over $1 billion per year, socalgas did not declare or pay common stock dividends in 2017 or 2016. socalgas' common stock dividends in the next few years will be impacted by its ability to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. pe, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of socalgas' outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by socalgas to pe and dividends paid by pe to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. dividend restrictions the board of directors for each of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas has the discretion to determine the payment and amount of future dividends by each such entity. the cpuc's regulation of sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' capital structures limits the amounts that are available for loans and dividends to sempra energy. at december 31, 2018 , based on these regulations, sempra energy could have received loans and dividends of approximately $552 million from sdg&amp;e and $618 million from socalgas. we provide additional information about dividend restrictions in restricted net assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. book value per common share sempra energy's book value per common share on the last day of each year was; $54.35 in 2018 $50.40 in 2017 $51.77 in 2016 the increase in 2018 was primarily the result of increases in equity from issuances of common stock, including share-based compensation, partially offset by dividends exceeding comprehensive income. in 2017 , the decrease was attributable to dividends in excess of comprehensive income, partially offset by an increase in equity from share-based compensation. capitalization our debt to capitalization ratio, calculated as total debt as a percentage of total debt and equity, was as follows: 104 total capitalization and debt-to-capitalization ratios (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated (1) sdg&amp;e (1) socalgas december 31, 2018 total capitalization $ 44,611 $ 12,625 $ 7,944 debt-to-capitalization ratio 57 % 52 % 46 % december 31, 2017 total capitalization $ 34,552 $ 11,434 $ 7,009 debt-to-capitalization ratio 56 % 51 % 44 % (1) includes otay mesa vie with no significant impact. significant changes in 2018 that affected capitalization included the following: sempra energy consolidated: increase in both long-term and short-term debt, issuances of preferred and common stock, offset by a decrease in nci primarily from the sale of our solar tax equity investments. sdg&amp;e: increase in long-term debt, partially offset by comprehensive income exceeding dividends. socalgas: increase in both long-term and short-term debt, partially offset by comprehensive income exceeding dividends. we provide additional information about these significant changes in notes 1 , 5 , 7 , 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. commitments the following tables summarize principal contractual commitments at december 31, 2018 for sempra energy consolidated, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. we provide additional information about commitments above and in notes 7 , 9 , 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. principal contractual commitments sempra energy consolidated (dollars in millions) 2019 2020 and 2021 2022 and 2023 thereafter total long-term debt $ 1,654 $ 3,744 $ 2,503 $ 14,166 $ 22,067 interest on long-term debt (1) 846 1,536 1,357 7,833 11,572 operating leases 91 135 121 303 650 capital leases (2) 21 39 52 1,185 1,297 purchased-power contracts 654 1,260 1,141 5,185 8,240 natural gas contracts 263 329 148 280 1,020 lng contract (3) 289 740 758 2,475 4,262 construction commitments 396 129 46 115 686 build-to-suit lease 10 22 22 217 271 songs decommissioning 90 125 145 266 626 other asset retirement obligations 96 151 158 1,956 2,361 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 3 6 6 105 120 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (4) 238 564 561 923 2,286 environmental commitments (5) 14 22 2 22 60 other 75 50 26 107 258 total $ 4,740 $ 8,852 $ 7,046 $ 35,138 $ 55,776 (1) we calculate expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. we calculate expected interest payments for variable-rate obligations based on forward rates in effect at december 31, 2018 . (2) present value of net minimum lease payments includes $16 million at sdg&amp;e that will be recorded as finance leases when construction of the battery storage facilities is completed and delivery of contracted power commences. (3) sempra lng &amp; midstream has a sale and purchase agreement for the supply of lng to the eca terminal. the commitment amount is calculated using a predetermined formula based on estimated forward prices of the index applicable from 2019 to 2029. (4) amounts represent expected company contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. (5) excludes amounts related to the natural gas leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. 105 principal contractual commitments sdg&amp;e (dollars in millions) 2019 2020 and 2021 2022 and 2023 thereafter total long-term debt $ 64 $ 496 $ 562 $ 3,874 $ 4,996 interest on long-term debt (1) 213 416 382 2,579 3,590 operating leases 25 48 42 55 170 capital leases (2) 17 38 52 1,181 1,288 purchased-power contracts 527 1,020 947 5,026 7,520 construction commitments 43 84 13 4 144 songs decommissioning 90 125 145 266 626 other asset retirement obligations 6 10 11 221 248 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 3 6 6 105 120 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (3) 40 94 120 209 463 environmental commitments 5 2 2 19 28 other 4 8 6 33 51 total $ 1,037 $ 2,347 $ 2,288 $ 13,572 $ 19,244 (1) sdg&amp;e calculates expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. (2) present value of net minimum lease payments includes $16 million that will be recorded as finance leases when construction of the battery storage facilities is completed and delivery of contracted power commences. (3) amounts represent expected sdg&amp;e contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. principal contractual commitments socalgas (dollars in millions) 2019 2020 and 2021 2022 and 2023 thereafter total long-term debt $ $ $ $ 3,459 $ 3,459 interest on long-term debt (1) 135 269 269 1,956 2,629 natural gas contracts 126 226 61 49 462 operating leases 36 64 58 65 223 capital leases 3 3 environmental commitments (2) 9 20 2 31 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (3) 119 368 367 596 1,450 asset retirement obligations 90 141 147 1,685 2,063 other 1 3 3 35 42 total $ 519 $ 1,091 $ 905 $ 7,847 $ 10,362 (1) socalgas calculates interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations. (2) excludes amounts related to the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. (3) amounts represent expected socalgas contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. the tables exclude: contracts between consolidated affiliates intercompany debt employment contracts the tables also exclude income tax liabilities at december 31, 2018 of: $87 million for sempra energy consolidated $11 million for sdg&amp;e $61 million for socalgas these liabilities relate to uncertain tax positions and were excluded from the tables because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future payments due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. we provide additional information about unrecognized income tax benefits in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 106 off-balance sheet arrangements the maximum aggregate amount of guarantees provided by sempra energy on behalf of related parties at december 31, 2018 is $4.2 billion. we discuss these guarantees in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have bilateral unsecured standby letter of credit capacity with select lenders that is uncommitted and supported by reimbursement agreements. at december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $598 million in standby letters of credit outstanding under these agreements. sdg&amp;e has entered into ppas which are variable interests. our investments in oncor holdings and cameron lng jv are variable interests. sempra renewables has entered into tax equity arrangements which are variable interests. sempra energy's other businesses may also enter into arrangements which could include variable interests. we discuss variable interests in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. factors influencing future performance sempra energy capital rotation we regularly review our portfolio of assets with a view toward allocating capital to those businesses that we believe can further improve shareholder value. in june 2018, we announced, following a comprehensive strategic review of our businesses and asset portfolio by our board of directors and management over the past year, our intention to sell several energy infrastructure assets, including our entire portfolio of u.s. wind and u.s. solar assets, as well as certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. in december 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of all its operating solar assets, one wind generation facility, and its solar and battery storage development projects to a subsidiary of con ed for $1.6 billion. in february 2019, sempra renewables entered into an agreement to sell its remaining u.s. wind assets to american electric power for $551 million, subject to customary closing adjustments. we expect to complete the sale in the second quarter of 2019. also in february 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners for $328 million (subject to working capital adjustments and sempra lng &amp; midstream's purchase for $20 million of the 9.1-percent minority interest in bay gas immediately prior to and included as part of the sale). we continue to actively pursue the sale of our remaining u.s. wind assets. we discuss these sales further in notes 5 and 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and below in sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream. on january 25, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses. we expect to complete the sales process by the end of 2019. shareholder activism from time to time, activist shareholders may take certain actions to advance shareholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors or management. on june 11, 2018, elliott associates, l.p. and elliott international, l.p. (collectively, elliott) and bluescape resources company llc (bluescape) disclosed they were collectively holders of an approximately 4.9-percent economic interest in our outstanding common stock as of such date and delivered a letter and accompanying presentation to our board of directors seeking collaboration with them and management to nominate six new directors identified by elliott and bluescape and establish a committee of the board of directors to conduct portfolio and operational reviews of our business. in september 2018, we announced that we reached an agreement with elliott, bluescape and cove key management, lp that, among other things, added two new board members that were mutually agreed between the parties, and repurposed the board's lng construction and technology committee into the lng and business development committee, which will conduct a comprehensive business review of sempra energy. the new committee is comprised of the three previously existing committee members and the two new board members. we are committed to continued constructive communications with all our shareholders and are available to discuss and evaluate ideas from our shareholders on how to maximize long-term value. sdg&amp;e 107 sdg&amp;e's operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. its performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the california legislature and the changing energy marketplace. capital project updates we summarize below information regarding certain major capital projects at sdg&amp;e that are pending regulatory resolution. capital projects pending regulatory resolution sdg&amp;e project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status electric vehicle charging january 2017 application, pursuant to sb 350, to perform various activities and make investments in support of six priority projects and residential ev charging. in january 2018, received approval for the six priority projects at $20 million. in may 2018, received conditional approval of a scaled down residential ev charging program utilizing capital of $30 million and o&amp;m of $151 million. $20 sdg&amp;e will not implement the modified residential ev charging program given the inability to establish an acceptable shareholder incentive mechanism and other necessary terms. january 2018 application, pursuant to sb 350, to make investments to support medium-duty and heavy-duty evs with an estimated implementation cost of $34 million of o&amp;m. $121 application seeking approval of settlement filed in november 2018. a draft decision is expected in the first half of 2019. energy storage projects february 2018 application, pursuant to ab 2868, to make investments to accelerate the widespread deployment of distributed energy storage systems. sdg&amp;e's application requests approval of 100 mw of utility-owned energy storage. $161 a draft decision is expected in the first half of 2019. the following capital projects that we discussed in our 2017 annual report on form 10-k and/or our 2018 quarterly reports on form 10-q have been approved by the cpuc: energy storage project (70 mw program); and utility billing and customer information systems software. electric rate reform california assembly bill 327 ab 327 became law on january 1, 2014 and restores the authority to establish electric residential rates for electric utility companies in california to the cpuc and removes the rate caps established in ab 1x adopted in early 2001 during california's energy crisis and in sb 695 adopted in 2009. additionally, the bill provides the cpuc the authority to adopt a monthly fixed charge for all residential customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that established comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that we believe are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the decision directed changes beginning in 2015 and provides a path for continued reforms through 2020. the changes also included fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the difference between the tiered rates, similar to the tier differential that existed prior to the 2000-2001 energy crisis, and a transition to tou rates. the decision allows the utilities to seek a fixed charge for residential customers, but sets certain conditions for its implementation, which would be no sooner than 2020 depending on cpuc approval. in december 2018, the cpuc approved sdg&amp;e's request to implement residential default tou rates beginning in 2019. overall, these reforms should result in a rate structure that better aligns rates with the actual cost to serve customers. in july 2014, the cpuc initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state's existing nem program pursuant to the provisions of ab 327. the nem program was originally established in 1995 and is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail-rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds its own energy usage. in addition, if a nem customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, the customer receives compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price. sdg&amp;e implemented a successor nem tariff in july 2016, after reaching the 617-mw cap established for the original nem program. the successor nem tariff requires nem customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-nem customers and moves new nem customers to tou rates. these changes to the nem program begin a process of reducing the 108 cost burden on non-nem customers, but sdg&amp;e believes that further reforms are necessary. in a january 2016 decision, the cpuc committed to revisit the nem successor tariff and the adequacy of its nem reforms, and we expect that review will begin in the second half of 2019. as of december 31, 2018, the total nem capacity in sdg&amp;e's service territory totaled 1,023 mw. further nem reform is necessary to help ensure that sdg&amp;e is authorized to recover, from nem customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. sdg&amp;e believes this approach would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in nem. if nem self-generating installations continue to increase at their present pace, the rate structure adopted by the cpuc could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. for additional discussion, see item 1a. risk factors. potential impacts of community choice aggregation and direct access sdg&amp;e provides electric services, including the commodity of electricity, to the majority of its customers ( bundled customers ). sdg&amp;e enters into long-term contracts to procure electricity on behalf of these bundled customers. sdg&amp;e's earnings are decoupled from electric sales volumes. one aspect of decoupling is that commodity costs for electricity are directly passed through to bundled customers (see discussion in revenues from sources other than contracts with customers utilities regulatory revenues in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). sdg&amp;e's bundled customers have the option to purchase the commodity of electricity from alternate suppliers under defined programs, including cca and da. in such cases, california law (sb 350) prohibits remaining bundled customers from experiencing any cost increase as a result of departing customers' choice to receive electric commodity from an alternate supplier. under the existing cost allocation mechanism approved by the cpuc, customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb a portion of above-market cost of electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. in october 2018, the cpuc issued a final decision that revises the current pcia framework by adopting several refinements to better ensure ratepayer indifference, as required by law, and directs sdg&amp;e to implement updated pcia rates effective january 1, 2019 using the adopted methodology. the final decision revises the benchmarks used to calculate the pcia and directs the future implementation of an annual true-up mechanism to ensure that ratepayer indifference is maintained. the decision also removes existing restrictions on recovering certain costs through the pcia, including the ability to recover the above-market costs of resources that have been in the utility's portfolio for more than 10 years and certain legacy utility-owned generation resources. we believe these pcia changes should help ensure that cost allocations result in ratepayer indifference and comply with the law. however, further refinements to the pcia may be required to help ensure that the remaining bundled customers do not experience any cost increase as a result of customers departing to cca or da service. renewable energy procurement sdg&amp;e is subject to the rps program administered by both the cpuc and the cec. in september 2018, sb 100 was signed into law and requires each california utility to procure 50 percent of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2026, and 60 percent by 2030. sb 100 also creates the policy of meeting all the state of california's retail electricity supply with a mix of rps-eligible and zero-carbon resources by 2045, for a total of 100 percent clean energy. the law also includes stipulations that this policy not increase carbon emissions elsewhere in the western grid and not allow resource shuffling, and requires that the cpuc, cec, carb and other state agencies incorporate this policy into all relevant planning. the rps program currently contains flexible compliance mechanisms that can be used to comply with or meet the rps program mandates. sdg&amp;e believes it will be able to comply with the rps program requirements, as revised, based on its contracting activity and, if necessary, application of the flexible compliance mechanisms. sdg&amp;e's failure to comply with the rps program requirements could subject it to cpuc-imposed penalties, which could materially adversely affect its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. socalgas socalgas' operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. its performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the california legislature and the changing energy marketplace. socalgas' performance will also depend on the resolution of the legal, regulatory and other matters concerning the leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, which we discuss below, in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors. the following capital project that we discussed in our 2018 quarterly reports on form 10-q has been approved by the cpuc: san joaquin valley oir 109 aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility located in los angeles county. socalgas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak. in february 2016, doggr confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for discussions of the following matters related to the leak: local community mitigation efforts; civil and criminal litigation; regulatory proceedings; and governmental investigations and orders and additional regulation. cost estimates, accounting impacts and insurance at december 31, 2018 , socalgas estimates its costs related to the leak are $1,055 million (the cost estimate), which includes $1,027 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. approximately 54 percent of the cost estimate is for the temporary relocation program (including cleaning costs and certain labor costs). the remaining portion of the cost estimate includes costs incurred to defend litigation, for the root cause analysis being conducted by an independent third party, for efforts to control the well, to mitigate the actual natural gas released, the cost of replacing the lost gas, and other costs, as well as the estimated costs to settle certain actions. as of december 31, 2018 , we recorded the expected recovery of the cost estimate related to the leak of $461 million as insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs on socalgas' and sempra energy's consolidated balance sheets. this amount is net of insurance retentions and $566 million of insurance proceeds we received through december 31, 2018 related to portions of the cost estimate described above, including temporary relocation and associated processing costs, control-of-well expenses, legal costs and lost gas. if we were to conclude that this receivable or a portion of it is no longer probable of recovery from insurers, some or all of this receivable would be charged against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as described in civil and criminal litigation in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, the actions seek compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which, except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, penalties or other costs that may be imposed. the recorded amounts above also do not include the costs to clean additional homes pursuant to the directives by the dph, future legal costs necessary to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy associated with defending against shareholder derivative lawsuits. excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together we estimate provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. we cannot predict all of the potential categories of costs or the total amount of costs that we may incur as a result of the leak. subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions, based on what we know as of the filing date of this report, we believe that our insurance policies collectively should cover the following categories of costs: costs incurred for temporary relocation and associated processing costs (including cleaning costs and certain labor costs), costs to address the leak and stop or reduce emissions, the root cause analysis being conducted to investigate the cause of the leak, the value of lost gas, costs incurred to mitigate the actual natural gas released, costs associated with litigation and claims by nearby residents and businesses, any costs to clean additional homes pursuant to directives by the dph, and, in some circumstances depending on their nature and manner of assessment, fines and penalties. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for these costs, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as noted above, at december 31, 2018 , socalgas' estimate of costs related to the leak of $1,055 million include $1,027 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. costs not included in the $1,055 million cost estimate could be material. if any costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas storage operations and reliability 110 natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (which represents 63 percent of socalgas' natural gas storage inventory capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility beginning in october 2015 and, in july 2017, resumed limited injections. the cpuc has issued a series of directives to socalgas establishing the range of working gas to be maintained in the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility to help ensure safety and reliability for the region and just and reasonable rates in california, the most recent of which, issued july 2, 2018, directed socalgas to maintain up to 34 bcf of working gas. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were made in 2018 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation in the region could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2018, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $724 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. california utilities joint matters capital project updates we summarize below information regarding certain major joint capital projects of the california utilities that are pending regulatory resolution. joint capital projects pending regulatory resolution california utilities project description estimated capital cost (in millions) status line 1600 test or replacement project in september 2018, sdg&amp;e and socalgas submitted a plan to the cpuc to address line 1600 psep requirements by replacing 37 miles of line 1600 predominately in populated areas and testing 13 miles of line 1600 in rural areas. $671 in january 2019, the cpuc approved the proposed plan to address line 1600 psep requirements. cost recovery will be addressed in future grcs. estimated o&amp;m implementation cost of $45 million and cost to retire portions of line 1600 of $14 million at sdg&amp;e. mobile home park utility upgrade program may 2017 application filed with the cpuc to convert an additional 20 percent of eligible units to direct utility service, for a total of 30 percent of mobile homes. in november 2018, the cpuc dismissed the may 2017 application, without prejudice, because the issues are subsumed in a separate oir. in april 2018, the cpuc opened an oir to evaluate the mobile home park program to convert eligible units to direct utility service and determine if it should be extended beyond the initial three-year pilot to a permanent program, and if extended, to adopt programmatic modifications. $471 to $508 a final decision in the oir is expected by the end of 2019. in february 2019, the cpuc issued a draft resolution to approve the extension of the pilot program through the earlier of 2020 or the issuance of a cpuc decision on pending proceedings. a final resolution is expected in the first half of 2019. the leak abatement compliance program that we discussed in our 2018 quarterly reports on form 10-q has been approved by the cpuc. the need for the pipeline safety &amp; reliability project discussed in our 2017 annual report on form 10-k and in our 2018 quarterly reports on form 10-q is met by the line 1600 test or replacement project described above. natural gas pipeline operations safety assessments 111 in 2011, the california utilities filed plans with the cpuc to implement the cpuc's directives to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines that do not have sufficient documentation of a pressure test and to address retrofitting pipelines to allow for in-line inspection tools and, where appropriate, automated or remote controlled shut-off valves (referred to as psep). in 2014, the cpuc issued a final decision approving the utilities' analytical approach to implementing psep, as embodied in an approved decision tree, but did not pre-approve recovery of the costs of implementing psep, because initial cost estimates were too preliminary to form the basis for ratemaking. instead, the cpuc established a process to review the reasonableness of incurred psep costs after-the-fact to determine the amounts that may be recovered from ratepayers. as portions of psep have been completed, actual costs have generally been higher than the preliminary estimates, partially offset by changes in scope that have reduced costs. implementation costs incurred through 2018 are summarized in the table below. over time, as we have completed an increasing number of projects, socalgas and sdg&amp;e achieve greater cost estimate accuracy, as well as efficiencies in executing the project work. cost estimates for work performed in 2017, 2018 and forward reflect the development of more detailed estimates, actual cost experience as portions of the work are completed and additional refinement in scope. in addition, implementation of new regulatory requirements or clarification of existing regulatory requirements in the future could materially impact the cost forecasts. in 2016, the cpuc issued a final decision authorizing socalgas and sdg&amp;e to recover in rates 50 percent of the balances recorded in psep regulatory accounts as of january 1 each year, subject to refund, pending reasonableness review. the decision also incorporated a forward-looking schedule to file reasonableness review applications in 2016 and 2018, file a forecast application for pre-approval of project costs incurred in 2017 and 2018, and to include psep costs not the subject of prior applications in future grcs. we expect this transition from an after-the-fact reasonableness review framework to pre-approval of psep implementation costs based on cost forecasts to improve the certainty of recovery for psep implementation costs. in september 2016, socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed a joint application with the cpuc for review of psep project costs completed through june 2015. the total costs submitted for review are approximately $195 million ($180 million for socalgas and $15 million for sdg&amp;e), including certain costs for which we were not seeking recovery. the cpuc approved a final decision in february 2019 for cost recovery of approximately $187 million ($172 million for socalgas and $15 million for sdg&amp;e) through the psep program. in march 2017, socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed an application with the cpuc requesting pre-approval of the forecasted revenue requirement associated with twelve psep projects, effective in rates on january 1, 2019. the california utilities expect to incur total costs for the twelve projects of approximately $255 million ($198 million in capital expenditures and $57 million in o&amp;m). we expect a cpuc decision in 2019. in november 2018, socalgas and sdg&amp;e filed a joint application with the cpuc for review of completed psep projects totaling $941 million ($811 million at socalgas and $130 million at sdg&amp;e), including certain costs for which we are not seeking recovery. we expect a cpuc decision in 2020. as shown in the table below, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have made significant pipeline safety investments under the psep program, and socalgas expects to continue making significant investments as approved through various regulatory proceedings. sdg&amp;e's psep program was substantially completed in 2017, with the exception of line 1600, which we discuss in the table above. both utilities have filed joint applications or plan to file future applications with the cpuc for review of the psep project costs as follows: 112 pipeline safety enhancement plan reasonableness review summary (dollars in millions) 2011 through 2018 total invested (1) cpuc review completed (2) cpuc review pending (3) 2019 and future applications (4)(5) sempra energy consolidated: capital $ 1,680 $ 8 $ 1,031 $ 641 operation and maintenance 196 25 150 21 total $ 1,876 $ 33 $ 1,181 $ 662 socalgas: capital $ 1,317 $ 8 $ 895 $ 414 operation and maintenance 187 25 141 21 total $ 1,504 $ 33 $ 1,036 $ 435 sdg&amp;e: capital $ 363 $ $ 136 $ 227 operation and maintenance 9 9 total $ 372 $ $ 145 $ 227 (1) excludes disallowed costs through december 31, 2018 of $7 million at socalgas and $5 million at sdg&amp;e for pressure testing or replacing pipelines installed between january 1, 1956 and july 1, 1961. also excludes $40 million incurred for line 1600 test or replacement project. (2) approved in december 2016; excludes $2 million of psep-specific insurance costs for which socalgas and sdg&amp;e are authorized to request recovery in a future filing. (3) includes (a) $195 million for completed projects pursuant to the 2016 reasonableness review application filed in september 2016, with a final decision approved in february 2019 for cost recovery; (proposed decision received in december 2018); (b) approximately $45 million of pre-engineering costs to support projects under development, submitted in the forecast application filed in march 2017, with a decision expected in 2019; and (c) $941 million for completed projects pursuant to the 2018 reasonableness review application filed in november 2018, with a decision expected in 2020. (4) remaining costs not the subject of prior applications are to be included in subsequent grcs. (5) authorized to recover 50 percent of the phase 1 revenue requirement annually, subject to refund. if either socalgas or sdg&amp;e were unable to recover a significant amount of these safety investments from ratepayers, it could have a material adverse effect on the cash flows, results of operations and financial condition of socalgas, sdg&amp;e and sempra energy. cpuc general rate case we describe the cpuc grc proceeding in item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms california utilities general rate case proceedings. on october 6, 2017, sdg&amp;e and socalgas filed their 2019 grc applications requesting cpuc approval of test year revenue requirements for 2019 and attrition year adjustments for 2020 through 2022. we discuss the 2019 grc in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the results of the rate case may materially and adversely differ from what is contained in the grc applications. incentive mechanisms we describe cpuc incentive mechanisms in item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms california utilities incentive mechanisms. incentive awards are included in revenues when we receive final cpuc approval of the award, the timing of which may not be consistent from year to year. we would record penalties for results below the specified benchmarks against revenues when we believe it is probable that the cpuc would assess a penalty. energy efficiency the cpuc has established incentive mechanisms that are based on the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. energy efficiency awards recorded in revenues (dollars in millions) sdg&amp;e socalgas award period (program years) 2018 2017 (1) 2016 2018 2017 (1) 2016 july 2016 - june 2017 $ $ $ $ $ $ july 2015 - june 2016 3 1 july 2014 - june 2015 4 4 (1) revenues in 2017 reflect settlement reductions as approved by the cpuc, as discussed below. 113 in march 2017, the cpuc approved the settlement agreements reached with the cal pa and turn regarding the incentive awards for program years 2006 through 2008, wherein the parties agreed that sdg&amp;e and socalgas would offset up to a total of approximately $4 million each against future incentive awards over a three-year period beginning in 2017. if the total incentive awards ultimately authorized for 2017 through 2019 are less than approximately $4 million for either utility, the applicable utility is released from paying any remaining unapplied amount. natural gas procurement the california utilities procure natural gas on behalf of their core natural gas customers. the cpuc has established incentive mechanisms to allow the california utilities the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for their core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. socalgas procures natural gas for sdg&amp;e's core natural gas customers' requirements. socalgas' gcim is applied on the combined portfolio basis. gcim awards recorded in revenues (dollars in millions) socalgas award period (program years) 2018 2017 2016 april 2016 - march 2017 $ 4 $ $ april 2015 - march 2016 5 april 2014 - march 2015 in february 2019, the cpuc issued a draft decision approving socalgas' gcim award of $11 million for natural gas procured for its core customers during the 12-month period ended march 31, 2018. operational incentives the cpuc may establish operational incentives and associated performance benchmarks as part of a grc or cost of service proceeding. in the 2016 grc fd, the cpuc did not establish any operational incentives for socalgas, but established an electric reliability incentive for sdg&amp;e. outcomes could vary from a maximum annual penalty of $8 million to a maximum annual award of $8 million. senate bill 901 on september 21, 2018, the governor of california signed into law sb 901, which includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain wildfire risks relevant to consumers and utilities and guidelines for the cpuc to determine whether utilities acted reasonably in order to recover costs related to wildfires. among other things, sb 901 also contains provisions for utility issuance of recovery bonds with respect to certain wildfire costs, subject to cpuc approval, wildfire mitigation plans, and creation of a commission to explore establishment of a fund and options for cost socialization with respect to catastrophic wildfires associated with utility infrastructure. the provisions of sb 901 are applicable to 2017 wildfire costs incurred by utilities, if any, and wildfire events occurring on or after january 1, 2019. they do not apply to the wildfires in sdg&amp;e's service territory in 2007. the cpuc initiated an oir in october 2018 to implement the provisions of sb 901 related to electric utility wildfire mitigation plans. the oir will provide guidance on the form and content of the initial wildfire mitigation plans, provide a venue for review of the initial plans, and develop and refine the content of and process for review and implementation of wildfire mitigation plans to be filed in future years. the electric utilities filed their proposed wildfire mitigation plans in february 2019, and we expect the cpuc will make a decision on the final plans in mid-2019. the scope of the oir is limited to only the wildfire mitigation plans required by sb 901 and does not include cost recovery. pursuant to sb 901, the cpuc shall authorize each utility to establish a memorandum account to track the costs incurred to implement the plan. the costs recorded to the memorandum account shall be incremental to the utility's authorized recovery and reviewed as part of the utility's next grc proceeding. sb 901 did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault). in their 2018 ratings actions for sdg&amp;e, which we discuss in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit ratings, each of moody's, fitch ratings and s&amp;p indicated that the sdg&amp;e rating downgrades reflected the failure of sb 901 to address the longer-term risks associated with inverse condemnation. without further changes to the law or other reform, we believe that sdg&amp;e is exposed to the potential of material liabilities if a major wildfire were to occur in its service territory and it was determined that its equipment was a cause of the fire. separately, sb 901, together with draft guidance from the cpuc, also provides that electric and gas corporations, such as 114 sdg&amp;e and socalgas, shall no longer recover compensation (including salary, bonus, benefits or other consideration paid) of certain senior officers from ratepayers; rather, such compensation shall be a shareholder expense. in december 2018, the cpuc published a resolution ordering memorandum accounts to be established to track such compensation costs. sempra texas utility acquisition of oncor holdings on march 9, 2018, we completed the acquisition of an indirect, 100-percent interest in oncor holdings, which owns an 80.25-percent interest in oncor, and other efh assets and liabilities unrelated to oncor. as we discuss in item 1. business, due to ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments in effect following the merger, we are prevented from having the power to direct the significant activities of oncor holdings and oncor. as a result, we account for our 100-percent ownership interest in oncor holdings as an equity method investment, which is included in our newly formed reportable segment, sempra texas utility. certain other assets and liabilities unrelated to oncor acquired in connection with the merger were subsumed within our parent organization. we discuss this merger and the related financing in notes 5 , 7 , 13 and 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and above in capital resources and liquidity. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of oncor to successfully execute its business strategy, including several objectives that are capital intensive, and to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry. if oncor is not able to achieve these objectives, is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, or otherwise fails to perform in accordance with our expectations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all and the merger may materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of sempra energy. pending acquisitions on october 18, 2018, oncor entered into the infrareit merger agreement, whereby oncor has agreed to acquire a 100 percent interest in infrareit and infrareit partners for approximately $1,275 million, plus approximately $40 million for a management agreement termination fee, as well as other customary transaction costs incurred by infrareit that would be borne by oncor as part of the acquisition. in addition, the transaction includes infrareit's outstanding debt, which as of september 30, 2018 was approximately $945 million. also on october 18, 2018, oncor entered into the asset exchange agreement, whereby sdts has agreed to accept and assume certain electricity transmission and distribution-related assets and liabilities of su in exchange for certain sdts assets. immediately prior to completing the exchange, sdts would become a wholly owned, indirect subsidiary of infrareit partners. on october 18, 2018, sempra energy entered into the securities purchase agreement, whereby sempra texas utilities holdings i, llc has agreed to acquire 50 percent of the economic interest in sharyland holdings, lp for approximately $98 million, subject to customary closing adjustments. in connection with and prior to the consummation of the securities purchase agreement, sharyland holdings, lp would own 100 percent of the membership interests in su and su would convert into a limited liability company, expected to be named sharyland utilities, llc. upon consummation of the securities purchase agreement, sempra texas utilities holdings i, llc would indirectly own and account for its 50 percent interest in sharyland utilities, llc as an equity method investment. consummation of these transactions is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including the substantially concurrent consummation of these transactions. these transactions also require approval by the puct and the ferc, as well as the satisfaction of other regulatory requirements, approval of the committee on foreign investment in the united states and other customary closing conditions. the acquisition of infrareit was approved by infrareit stockholders on february 7, 2019. we expect that the transactions will close in mid-2019. there can be no assurance that oncor and sempra energy will derive the anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. we discuss these transactions further in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. oncor intends to fund its acquisition of interests in infrareit from capital contributions from sempra energy and certain indirect equity holders of tti, proportionate to sempra energy's and tti's respective ownership interests in oncor. we plan to fund our approximately $1,025 million share of the contribution to oncor (excluding sempra energy's share of approximately $40 million for a management agreement termination fee, as well as other customary transaction costs incurred by infrareit that would be borne by oncor as part of the acquisition) and purchase the 50-percent interest in sharyland holdings, lp by utilizing a portion of the $1.6 billion of proceeds received from the december 2018 sale of certain sempra renewables assets to a subsidiary of con ed that we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements . 115 sempra south american utilities on january 25, 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses based on our strategic shift to be geographically focused on north america. we expect to complete the sales process by the end of 2019. our utilities in south america have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity, and their future performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, foreign currency rate fluctuations and economic conditions. they are also expected to provide earnings from construction projects when completed and from other investments, but will require substantial funding for these investments. capital project updates we summarize below information regarding major projects in process at sempra south american utilities. chilquinta energ a's eletrans' projects are being financed by the jv partners during construction, and other financing may be pursued upon project completion. luz del sur is financing its projects through its existing debt program. capital projects under construction sempra south american utilities project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status chilquinta energ a - new technical norm project implementation of new quality of service and operating standards for distribution business. $353 estimated completion: 2025 includes deployment of smart meters to approximately 700,000 customers, automation of operations and grid modernization. costs to be recovered through incremental regulated tariff authorized in september 2018. chilquinta energ a - eletrans ii s.a. two 220-kv transmission lines awarded in june 2013. $46 estimated completion: 2020 transmission lines to extend approximately 78 miles in total. once in operation, will earn a return in u.s. dollars, indexed to the cpi, for 20 years and a regulated return thereafter. 50-percent equity interest in jv. chilquinta energ a - eletrans iii s.a. 220-kv transmission line awarded in june 2017. $50 estimated completion: 2022 transmission line in the northern region of chile to extend approximately 133 miles. once in operation, will earn a return in u.s. dollars, indexed to the cpi, for 20 years and a regulated return thereafter. 50-percent equity interest in jv. luz del sur - lima substations and transmission lines (second investment) amended transmission investment plan includes development and operation of seven substations and related transmission lines. $239 estimated completion: 2019 through 2020 as portions are completed once in operation, the capitalized cost of the projects will earn a regulated return for 30 years. completed one substation and related transmission lines in 2018. acquisition of ctng on december 18, 2018, chilquinta energ a acquired a 100-percent interest in ctng through a sales and purchase agreement with aes gener s.a. and its subsidiary sociedad el ctrica angamos s.a. ctng owns regulated transmission assets in the valparaiso, metropolitana and antofagasta regions of chile. the fully operating transmission assets include a 114-mile, 110-kv single-circuit transmission line, an 82-mile, 220-kv double-circuit transmission line, substations and other transmission assets. ctng's regulated revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the cne and are reviewed by the cne every four years. this business acquisition aligns with chilquinta energ a's business model of owning and operating regulated transmission and distribution assets. we paid the purchase price of $208 million, net of cash acquired, with available cash on hand at sempra south american utilities. we discuss this acquisition further in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 116 regulated rates we describe the ratemaking process in chile and peru in item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms sempra south american utilities. we describe rate setting resolutions made in 2018 in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. luz del sur - potential impact from tolling customers luz del sur is an electric distribution utility that provides electric services, including the supply of electricity, to regulated and non-regulated customers. non-regulated customers consist of free and tolling customers. luz del sur supplies electricity to its customers from power purchased from generators under long-term, take-or-pay ppas. a free customer has the option of purchasing electricity directly from luz del sur, while paying fees to luz del sur for generation, transmission (primary and secondary) and distribution services, or choosing to become a tolling customer. a tolling customer purchases electricity from alternative suppliers and pays only a tolling fee to luz del sur for secondary transmission and distribution. to the extent customers have the right to and choose to become tolling customers, luz del sur may be exposed to stranded costs related to capacity charges under its long-term, take-or-pay ppas. we discuss luz del sur's customers and demand in item 1. business. 117 sempra mexico capital project updates we summarize major projects in process at sempra mexico below. capital projects under construction sempra mexico gas business project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status sur de texas-tuxpan marine pipeline img was awarded the right to build, own and operate the natural gas marine pipeline in june 2016 by the cfe. $992 estimated completion: second quarter of 2019 sempra mexico has a 40-percent interest in img, a jv with transcanada, which owns the remaining 60-percent interest. natural gas transportation services agreement for a 25-year term, denominated in u.s. dollars. terminals at port of veracruz, puebla and mexico city awarded a 20-year concession in july 2017 to build and operate a marine terminal in the port of veracruz in mexico for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. $440 expected completion of marine terminal: fourth quarter of 2019 planned storage capacity of 2.1 million barrels. expected completion of two inland storage terminals: first quarter of 2020 working capacity of 1.4 million barrels of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel to supply the central region of mexico. ienova will also build and operate two storage terminals located near puebla and mexico city, each with storage capacities of 650,000 barrels. entered into three, long-term, u.s. dollar-denominated terminal services agreements in july 2017 with valero energy for the full capacity of the marine terminal and the two inland storage terminals. pursuant to these agreements, valero energy has the option to purchase a 50-percent interest in each of the three terminals after commencement of commercial operations, subject to approval by the port of veracruz, cofece, the cre and other regulatory bodies. baja refinados terminal plan to develop, construct and operate a liquid fuels marine storage terminal within the la jovita energy center, located 14 miles north of ensenada, baja california, mexico. $130 estimated completion: fourth quarter of 2020 capacity of 1 million barrels of hydrocarbons, primarily gasoline and diesel, to increase fuel supply capacity and reliability in baja california. fully contracted under two, long-term, u.s. dollar-denominated contracts for the receipt, storage and delivery of hydrocarbons with chevron and bp. chevron has the option to acquire 20 percent of the equity of the terminal after commercial operations begin. topolobampo port administration terminal plan to develop, construct and operate a marine terminal for the receipt and storage of hydrocarbons, petroleum, petrochemicals and other liquids. $150 estimated completion: fourth quarter of 2020 storage capacity of 1 million barrels, mainly for diesel and gasoline, to increase fuel supply sources and reliability in sinaloa. fully contracted under 15-year and 10-year, u.s. dollar-denominated contracts for the receipt, storage and delivery of hydrocarbons with chevron and a subsidiary of marathon petroleum corporation, respectively. the chevron contract has the potential to be extended up to 30 years. the marathon petroleum corporation contract has the potential to be extended indefinitely. chevron has the option to acquire up to 25 percent of the equity of the terminal after commercial operations begin. 118 capital projects under construction sempra mexico gas business (continued) project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status manzanillo terminal plan to develop, construct and operate a marine terminal for the receipt, storage and delivery of refined products in manzanillo, colima. $102 to $165 estimated completion: fourth quarter of 2020 entered into a long-term, u.s. dollar-denominated agreement with trafigura mexico, s.a. de c.v. for 740,000 barrels of the terminal's initial storage capacity. estimated storage capacity of 1.48 million barrels, with opportunities for expansion. 51-percent equity interest in jv, with option to increase ownership interest up to 82.5 percent. capital projects under construction or pending regulatory resolution sempra mexico power business project description our share of estimated capital cost (in millions) status la rumorosa solar complex awarded 41-mw photovoltaic solar energy project located in baja california, mexico, in an auction conducted by mexico's national center of electricity control (centro nacional de control de energ a) in september 2016. $50 estimated completion: first quarter of 2019 contracted by the cfe under a 15-year renewable energy agreement and a 20-year clean energy certificate agreement, denominated in u.s. dollars. tepezal ii solar complex awarded 100-mw photovoltaic solar energy project located in aguascalientes, mexico, in an auction conducted by mexico's national center of electricity control in september 2016. $90 estimated completion: second quarter of 2019 contracted by the cfe under 15-year renewable energy and capacity agreements and a 20-year clean energy certificate agreement, denominated in u.s. dollars. developing and constructing in collaboration with trina solar, which owns a 10-percent interest in the project. ienova has the option to purchase, and trina solar has the option to sell, trina solar's ownership interest at the end of the construction period, before operations commence. pima solar awarded 110-mw photovoltaic project located in sonora, mexico in march 2017. $115 completed in february 2019 entered into a 20-year, u.s. dollar-denominated ppa in march 2017 to provide renewable energy, clean energy certificates and capacity. don diego solar complex plan to develop, construct and operate a 125-mw photovoltaic project located in sonora, mexico. $130 estimated completion: fourth quarter of 2019 in february 2018, entered into a 15-year, u.s. dollar-denominated ppa with various subsidiaries of el puerto de liverpool, s.a.b. de c.v. for a portion of the capacity. energ a sierra ju rez 2 108-mw wind power generation facility, located in la rumorosa, baja california. $150 expected completion: fourth quarter of 2020 entered into a 20-year, u.s. dollar-denominated ppa with sdg&amp;e in november 2017. pending ferc approval received cpuc approval in december 2017. sempra mexico continues to monitor cfe project opportunities and carefully analyze cfe bids in order to participate in those that fit its overall growth strategy. there can be no assurance that ienova will be successful in bidding for new cfe projects. 119 the ability to successfully complete major construction projects is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. for a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see item 1a. risk factors. energ a costa azul lng terminal sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova are developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing regasification terminal at eca. the proposed liquefaction facility project, which we expect will be developed in two phases, is being developed to provide buyers with direct access to west coast lng supplies. eca currently has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the regasification facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial financially than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. in november 2018, sempra energy and total s.a. entered into an mou that provides a framework for cooperation for the development of the potential eca liquefaction-export project and the potential cameron lng expansion project that we describe below in sempra lng &amp; midstream proposed additional cameron liquefaction expansion. the mou contemplates total s.a. potentially contracting for up to approximately 9 mtpa of lng offtake across these two development projects and provides total s.a. the option to acquire an equity interest in the proposed eca lng liquefaction facility project, though the ultimate participation by total s.a. remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. the mou does not commit any party to sign a definitive agreement or otherwise participate in the project. in june 2018, we selected a technipfmc plc and kiewit corporation partnership as the epc contractor for the first phase of the proposed eca lng liquefaction facility project (eca lng phase 1). the technipfmc-kiewit partnership is to perform the engineering, planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for eca lng phase 1. the current arrangement with the technipfmc-kiewit partnership does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in november 2018, sempra lng &amp; midstream and ienova signed heads of agreements with affiliates of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. for eca lng phase 1. we expect eca lng phase 1 to be a single train liquefaction facility located within the existing lng receipt terminal site with a capacity of approximately 2.4 mtpa of lng for export to global markets. each heads of agreement for eca lng phase 1 contemplates the parties negotiating definitive 20-year lng sales and purchase agreements for the purchase of approximately 0.8 mtpa of lng from the eca lng facility, but does not obligate the parties to ultimately execute any agreements or otherwise participate in the project. the ultimate participation of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. in the potential eca lng project as contemplated by the heads of agreements remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors. the development of the eca lng phase 1 and phase 2 projects is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including obtaining binding customer commitments; the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including a definitive epc contract, equity acquisition and governance agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. for a discussion of these risks, see item 1a. risk factors. sempra renewables sempra renewables' performance is primarily a function of the wind (and previously solar) power generated by its assets. power generation from these assets depends on solar and wind resource levels, weather conditions, and sempra renewables' ability to maintain equipment performance. as we discuss in notes 5 and 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in june 2018, our board of directors approved a plan to sell all our u.s. wind assets and u.s. solar assets, including our wholly and jointly owned operating facilities and projects in development in our sempra renewables reportable segment. in december 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of all its operating solar assets, its solar and battery storage development projects and one wind generation facility to a subsidiary of con ed for $1.6 billion. in february 2019, sempra renewables entered into an agreement with american electric power to sell its remaining wind assets and investments for $551 million, subject to working capital adjustments and customary closing conditions. we expect to complete the sale in the second quarter of 2019. because of our expectation of a shorter holding period as a result of this plan of sale, we evaluated the recoverability of the carrying amounts of our wind and solar equity method investments and concluded there was an other-than-temporary impairment on certain of our wind equity method investments totaling $200 million ( $145 million after tax), which we recorded in equity earnings in june 2018. 120 we may be unable to complete the sale of the remaining u.s. renewable assets, in which case we would not realize the anticipated benefits. alternatively, even if completed, any such sale may not result in the anticipated benefits to our business, results of operations and financial condition in a timely manner or at all. further, we could experience unexpected delays, business disruptions resulting from supporting this initiative during and following completion of these activities, decreased productivity, adverse effects on employee morale and employee turnover as a result of such initiative, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. sempra lng &amp; midstream cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project major project under construction sempra lng &amp; midstream project description status cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project sempra energy contributed cameron lng, llc's existing facilities to cameron lng jv, of which sempra energy indirectly owns 50.2 percent, and construction began in the second half of 2014. based on a number of factors discussed below, we believe it is reasonable to expect that cameron lng jv will start generating earnings in the middle of 2019. estimated cost of approximately $10 billion at the time of our final investment decision by cameron lng jv. capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capacity of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. authorized to export the full capacity of lng to both fta and non-fta countries. 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements for full nameplate capacity. construction on the current three-train liquefaction project began in the second half of 2014 under an epc contract with a jv between cb&amp;i, llc (as assignee of cb&amp;i shaw constructors, inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of mcdermott international, inc., and chiyoda international corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of chiyoda corporation. the total cost of the integrated cameron lng jv facility, including the cost of the original facility that was contributed to the project during construction, financing costs and required reserves, was estimated to be approximately $10 billion at the time of our final investment decision. sempra lng &amp; midstream has agreements totaling 1.45 bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation service to the cameron lng jv facilities on the cameron interstate pipeline with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd. the terms of these agreements are concurrent with the liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements. sempra energy and the project partners executed project financing documents for senior secured debt in an aggregate principal amount up to $7.4 billion for the purpose of financing the cost of development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project. sempra energy has entered into guarantees under which it has severally guaranteed 50.2 percent of cameron lng jv's obligations under the project financing and financing-related agreements, for a maximum amount of up to $3.9 billion . the project financing and completion guarantees became effective on october 1, 2014, and the guarantees will terminate upon financial completion of the project, which will occur upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. we expect the project to achieve financial completion and the completion guarantees to be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, substantial construction delays and increased costs. cameron lng jv has a turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. if the contractor's delays or failures are serious enough to cause the contractor to default under the epc contract, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor, which would cause further delays. based on a number of factors, we believe it is reasonable to expect that cameron lng jv will start generating earnings in the middle of 2019. these factors include, among others, the terms of the settlement agreement entered into in december 2017 with the epc contractor to settle certain contractor's claims, the epc contractor's progress to date, the current commissioning 121 activities, the remaining work to be performed, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules, and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. for a discussion of the cameron lng jv and of these risks and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. project delays that occurred prior to december 2017 and the terms of the related settlement agreement between cameron lng jv and the epc contractor increased the total estimated cost of the integrated cameron lng facility above the approximately $10 billion estimated cost; however, the estimated increase is expected to be within our contingency associated with the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision and is not expected to be material to sempra energy . proposed additional cameron liquefaction expansion cameron lng jv has received the major permits and fta and non-fta approvals necessary to expand the current configuration of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project from the current three liquefaction trains under construction. the proposed expansion project includes up to two additional liquefaction trains, capable of increasing lng production capacity by approximately 9 mtpa to 10 mtpa, and up to two additional full containment lng storage tanks (one of which was permitted with the original three-train project). under the cameron lng jv financing agreements, expansion of the cameron lng jv facilities beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. discussions among the partners have been taking place regarding how an expansion may be structured. in july 2018, total s.a. acquired engie s.a.'s interest in the cameron lng jv. in november 2018, sempra energy and total s.a. entered into an mou that provides a framework for cooperation for the development of the potential cameron lng expansion project and the potential eca liquefaction-export project that we describe above in sempra mexico energ a costa azul lng terminal. the mou contemplates total s.a. potentially contracting for up to approximately 9 mtpa of lng offtake across these two development projects, though the ultimate participation of total s.a. remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors, and total s.a. has no commitment to participate in the project. we expect that discussions on the potential expansion will continue among all the cameron lng jv members. there can be no assurance that a mutually agreeable expansion structure will be agreed upon unanimously by the cameron lng jv members, which if not accomplished in a timely manner, could materially and adversely impact the development of the expansion project. in light of this, we are unable to predict when we and/or cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on this expansion project. the expansion of the cameron lng jv facilities beyond the first three trains is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including amending the cameron lng jv agreement among the partners, obtaining binding customer commitments, completing the required commercial agreements, securing and maintaining all necessary permits, approvals and consents, obtaining financing, reaching a final investment decision among the cameron lng jv partners, and other factors associated with the potential investment. see item 1a. risk factors. other lng liquefaction development design, regulatory and commercial activities are ongoing for potential lng liquefaction developments at our port arthur, texas site and at sempra mexico's eca facility. for these development projects, we have met with potential customers and determined there is an interest in long-term contracts for lng supplies beginning in the 2022 to 2025 time frame. port arthur sempra lng &amp; midstream is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project on a greenfield site that it owns in the vicinity of port arthur, texas, located along the sabine-neches waterway. in november 2016, sempra lng &amp; midstream submitted an application to the ferc for approval of the siting, construction and operation of the port arthur liquefaction facility, along with certain natural gas pipelines that could be used to supply feed gas to the liquefaction facility, assuming the project is completed. on january 31, 2019, the ferc issued the final environmental impact statement for the project. this is the final step in the environmental review process before the ferc can proceed to issue an order approving the project. in june 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream filed permit applications with the doe for authorization to export the lng produced from the proposed port arthur project to all current and future non-fta countries. in august 2015, sempra lng &amp; midstream received authorization from the doe to export the lng produced from the proposed project to all current and future fta 122 countries. we expect to receive authorization to export to non-fta countries assuming we receive authorization to construct the port arthur facility from the ferc. in june 2018, we selected bechtel as the epc contractor for the proposed port arthur liquefaction project. bechtel is to perform the engineering, execution planning and related activities necessary to prepare, negotiate and finalize a definitive epc contract for the project. the current arrangement with bechtel does not commit any party to enter into a definitive epc contract or otherwise participate in the project. in december 2018, polish oil &amp; gas company (pgnig) and port arthur lng entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 mtpa of lng per year. under the agreement, lng purchases by pgnig from port arthur lng will be made on a free-on-board basis, with pgnig responsible for shipping the lng from the port arthur terminal to the final destination. port arthur lng will manage the gas pipeline transportation, liquefaction processing and cargo loading. the agreement is subject to certain conditions precedent, including port arthur lng making a positive final investment decision. development of the port arthur lng liquefaction project is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including obtaining additional customer commitments; completing the required commercial agreements, such as equity acquisition and governance agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; completing construction contracts; securing all necessary permits and approvals; obtaining financing and incentives; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with the potential investment. see item 1a. risk factors. energ a costa azul we further discuss sempra lng &amp; midstream's participation in potential lng liquefaction development at sempra mexico's eca facility above in sempra mexico energ a costa azul lng terminal. natural gas storage assets as we discuss in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in june 2018, our board of directors approved a plan to sell mississippi hub and our 90.9-percent ownership interest in bay gas. on february 7, 2019, sempra lng &amp; midstream completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. sempra lng &amp; midstream received cash proceeds of $328 million (subject to working capital adjustments and sempra lng &amp; midstream's purchase for $20 million of the 9.1-percent minority interest in bay gas immediately prior to and included as part of the sale). as a result of the impairment charges recorded in 2018, we do not expect to recognize a gain or loss on the sale, which is subject to working capital adjustments, in 2019 because the carrying value of the assets equaled fair value, less costs to sell. at closing, arclight capital partners owns 100 percent of mississippi hub and bay gas. other sempra energy matters we may be impacted by rapidly changing economic conditions. these conditions may also affect our counterparties. moreover, the dollar may fluctuate significantly compared to some foreign currencies, especially in mexico and south america where we have significant operations. we discuss these matters in impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations above and in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively affect profitability at sempra lng &amp; midstream. also, a reduction in projected global demand for lng could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored lng export initiatives. for a discussion of these risks and other risks involving changing commodity prices, see item 1a. risk factors. litigation we describe legal proceedings that could adversely affect our future performance in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 123 critical accounting policies and estimates management views certain accounting policies as critical because their application is the most relevant, judgmental, and/or material to our financial position and results of operations, and/or because they require the use of material judgments and estimates. we describe our significant accounting policies in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss choices among alternative accounting policies that are material to our financial statements and information concerning significant estimates with the audit committee of the sempra energy board of directors. contingencies sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas we accrue losses for the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. for loss contingencies, we accrue the loss if an event has occurred on or before the balance sheet date and: information available through the date we file our financial statements indicates it is probable that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of uncertain future events; and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. we do not accrue contingencies that might result in gains. we continuously assess contingencies for litigation claims, environmental remediation and other events. details of our issues in this area are discussed in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. regulatory accounting sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas as regulated entities, the california utilities' rates, as set and monitored by regulators, are designed to recover the cost of providing service and provide the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on their investments. the california utilities record regulatory assets, which are generally costs that would otherwise be charged to expense, if it is probable that, through the ratemaking process, the utility will recover that asset from customers in future rates. similarly, regulatory liabilities are recorded for amounts recovered in rates in advance or in excess of costs incurred. the california utilities assess probabilities of future rate recovery associated with regulatory account balances at the end of each reporting period and whenever new and/or unusual events occur, such as: changes in the regulatory and political environment or the utility's competitive position; issuance of a regulatory commission order; or passage of new legislation. to the extent that circumstances associated with regulatory balances change, the regulatory balances are evaluated and adjusted if appropriate. adverse legislative or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of our regulatory assets and liabilities and could materially adversely impact our financial statements. details of the california utilities' regulatory assets and liabilities and additional factors that management considers when assessing probabilities associated with regulatory balances are discussed in notes 1 , 4 , 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. income taxes sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas our income tax expense and related balance sheet amounts involve significant management judgments and estimates. amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as current and noncurrent accruals, involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income and deductions by taxing authorities. when we evaluate the anticipated resolution of income tax issues, we consider: 124 past resolutions of the same or similar issue; the status of any income tax examination in progress; and positions taken by taxing authorities with other taxpayers with similar issues. the likelihood of deferred income tax recovery is based on analyses of the deferred income tax assets and our expectation of future taxable income, based on our strategic planning. actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts because of: future impacts of various items, including changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations and rulings; our financial condition in future periods; and the resolution of various income tax issues between us and taxing and regulatory authorities. for an uncertain position to qualify for benefit recognition, the position must have at least a more likely than not chance of being sustained (based on the position's technical merits) upon challenge by the respective authorities. the term more likely than not means a likelihood of more than 50 percent. if we do not have a more likely than not position with respect to a tax position, then we do not recognize any of the potential tax benefit associated with the position. a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon the effective resolution of the tax position. unrecognized tax benefits involve management's judgment regarding the likelihood of the benefit being sustained. the final resolution of uncertain tax positions could result in adjustments to recorded amounts and may affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we discuss details of our issues in this area and additional information related to accounting for income taxes, including uncertainty in income taxes, in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. derivatives and hedge accounting sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas we record derivative instruments for which we do not apply a scope exception at fair value on the balance sheet. depending on the purpose for the contract and the applicability of hedge or regulatory accounting, the changes in fair value of derivatives may be recorded in earnings, on the balance sheet, or in oci. we also use the normal purchase or sale exception for certain derivative contracts. whenever possible, we use exchange quoted prices or other third-party pricing to estimate fair values; if no such data is available, we use internally developed models and other techniques. the assumed collectability of derivative assets and receivables considers: events specific to a given counterparty; the tenor of the transaction; and the credit-worthiness of the counterparty. the application of hedge accounting and normal purchase or sale accounting for certain derivatives is determined on a contract-by-contract basis. significant changes in assumptions in our cash flow hedges, such as the amount and/or timing of forecasted transactions, could cause unrealized gains or losses (mark-to-market) to be reclassified out of aoci to earnings, which may materially impact our results of operations. additionally, changes in assumed physical delivery on contracts for which we elected normal purchase or sale accounting may result in tainting of the election, which may (1) preclude us from making this election in future transactions and (2) impact sempra energy's results of operations. any resulting impact on the california utilities' results of operations would not be significant because regulatory accounting principles generally apply to their contracts. we provide details of our derivative instruments and our fair value approaches in notes 11 and 12 , respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. pension and other postretirement benefit plans sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas to measure our pension and other postretirement obligations, costs and liabilities, we rely on several assumptions. we consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these assumptions. we review these assumptions annually and update when appropriate. 125 the critical assumptions used to develop the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates; expected return on plan assets; health care cost trend rates; mortality rates; rate of compensation increases; termination and retirement rates; utilization of postretirement welfare benefits; payout elections (lump sum or annuity); and lump sum interest rates. the actuarial assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to: return on plan assets; changing market and economic conditions; higher or lower withdrawal rates; longer or shorter participant life spans; more or fewer lump sum versus annuity payout elections made by plan participants; and higher or lower retirement rates. these differences, other than those related to the california utilities' plans, where rate recovery offsets the effects of the assumptions on earnings, may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit expense we record. for plans other than those at the california utilities, the approximate annual effect on earnings of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed discount rate would be less than $2 million and the effect of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would be less than $2 million. we provide details of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. asset retirement obligations sempra energy, sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's legal aros related to the decommissioning of songs are estimated based on a site-specific study performed no less than every three years. the estimate of the obligations includes: estimated decommissioning costs, including labor, equipment, material and other disposal costs; inflation adjustment applied to estimated cash flows; discount rate based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate; and actual decommissioning costs, progress to date and expected duration of decommissioning activities. changes in the estimated decommissioning costs, or in the assumptions and judgments made by management underlying these estimates, could cause revisions to the estimated total cost associated with retiring the assets. sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning expenses are subject to rate recovery and, therefore, rate-making accounting treatment is applied to sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning activities. sdg&amp;e recognizes a regulatory asset, or liability, to the extent that its songs aro exceeds, or is less than, the amount collected from customers and the amount earned in sdg&amp;e's ndt. we provide additional detail in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impairment testing of long-lived assets sempra energy whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable, we consider if the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets. if so, we estimate the fair value of these assets to determine the extent to which carrying value exceeds fair value. for these estimates, we may consider data from multiple valuation methods, including data from market participants. we exercise judgment to estimate the future cash flows and the useful lives of long-lived assets and to determine our intent to use the assets. our intent to use or dispose of assets is subject to re-evaluation and can change over time. 126 if an impairment test is required, the fair value of long-lived assets can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. we discuss impairment of long-lived assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. impairment testing of goodwill sempra energy on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, we consider whether goodwill may be impaired. for our annual goodwill impairment testing, we have the option to first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test. if we elect to perform the qualitative assessment, we evaluate relevant events and circumstances, including but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, changes in key personnel and the overall financial performance of the reporting unit. if, after assessing these qualitative factors, we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. when we perform the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test, we exercise judgment to develop estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit and compare that to the carrying value. our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. we consider observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, if available, as well as an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future revenues and expenses and may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the reporting unit. critical assumptions that affect our estimates of fair value may include: consideration of market transactions; future cash flows; the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate; country risk; and entity risk. when we choose to make a qualitative assessment as discussed above, the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test is not required if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or when we choose to proceed directly to the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test, the test requires us to first determine if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and if so, to measure the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. when determining if goodwill is impaired, the fair value of the reporting unit and goodwill can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. as a result, recognizing a goodwill impairment may or may not be required. in 2018, we chose to proceed directly to the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test and determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units in mexico and south america to which goodwill was allocated were substantially above their carrying values as of october 1, 2018, our goodwill impairment testing date. we discuss goodwill in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. carrying value of equity method investments sempra energy we generally account for investments under the equity method when we have significant influence over, but do not have control of, the investee. we consider whether the fair value of each equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. to help evaluate whether a decline in fair value below carrying value has occurred and if the decline is other than temporary, we may develop fair value estimates for the investment. our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. in the absence of observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, we consider an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis or, with less weighting, the replacement cost of the underlying net assets. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future distributions from the investment, or may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the entity and adjusted for our ownership share total. when calculating estimates of fair or realizable values, we also consider whether we intend to hold or sell the investment. for certain investments, critical assumptions may include: 127 equity sale offer price for the investment; transportation rates for natural gas; the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate; the availability and costs of natural gas and lng; competing fuels (primarily propane) and electricity; estimated future power generation and associated tax credits; and renewable power price expectations. in addition, for our indirect investment in oncor, critical assumptions may also include the effects of ratemaking, such as the results of regulator decisions on rates and recovery of regulated investments and costs. the risk assumptions applied by other market participants to value the investments could vary significantly or the appropriate approaches could be weighted differently. these differences could impact whether or not the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value, and if so, whether that condition is other than temporary. this could result in an impairment charge or a different amount of impairment charge, and, in cases where an impairment charge has been recorded, additional loss or gain upon sale in the case of a sale transaction. we provide additional details in notes 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards we discuss the relevant pronouncements that have recently become effective and have had or may have a significant effect on our financial statements in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of erosion of our cash flows, earnings, asset values and equity due to adverse changes in market prices, and interest and foreign currency rates. risk policies sempra energy has policies governing its market risk management and trading activities. sempra energy and the california utilities maintain separate and independent risk management committees, organizations and processes for the california utilities and for all non-cpuc regulated affiliates to provide oversight of these activities. the committees consist of senior officers who establish policy, oversee energy risk management activities, and monitor the results of trading and other activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management and trading policies. these activities include, but are not limited to, daily monitoring of market positions that create credit, liquidity and market risk. the respective oversight organizations and committees are independent from the energy procurement departments. along with other tools, we use var and liquidity metrics to measure our exposure to market risk associated with the commodity portfolios. var is an estimate of the potential loss on a position or portfolio of positions over a specified holding period, based on normal market conditions and within a given statistical confidence interval. a liquidity metric is intended to monitor the amount of financial resources needed for meeting potential margin calls as forward market prices move. var and liquidity risk metrics are calculated independently by the respective risk management oversight organizations. the california utilities use power and natural gas derivatives to manage natural gas and electric price risk associated with servicing load requirements. the use of power and natural gas derivatives is subject to certain limitations imposed by company policy and is in compliance with risk management and trading activity plans that have been filed with and approved by the cpuc. we discuss revenue recognition in note 1 and the additional market-risk information regarding derivative instruments in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have exposure to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates and exposure to counterparty nonperformance. the following discussion of these primary market-risk exposures as of december 31, 2018 includes a discussion of how these exposures are managed. 128 commodity price risk market risk related to physical commodities is created by volatility in the prices and basis of certain commodities. our various subsidiaries are exposed, in varying degrees, to price risk, primarily to prices in the natural gas and electricity markets. our policy is to manage this risk within a framework that considers the unique markets and operating and regulatory environments of each subsidiary. sempra mexico, sempra renewables and sempra lng &amp; midstream are generally exposed to commodity price risk indirectly through their lng, natural gas pipeline and storage, and power generating assets and their ppas. these segments may utilize commodity transactions in the course of optimizing these assets. these transactions are typically priced based on market indices, but may also include fixed price purchases and sales of commodities. any residual exposure is monitored as described above. a hypothetical 10-percent unfavorable change in commodity prices would not have resulted in a material change in the fair value of our commodity-based financial derivatives for these segments at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled. also, the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based financial derivative instruments does not typically include the generally offsetting impact of our underlying asset positions. the california utilities' market-risk exposure is limited due to cpuc-authorized rate recovery of the costs of commodity purchases, interstate and intrastate transportation, and storage activity. however, socalgas may, at times, be exposed to market risk as a result of incentive mechanisms that reward or penalize the utility for commodity costs below or above certain benchmarks for socalgas' gcim. if commodity prices were to rise too rapidly, it is likely that volumes would decline. this decline would increase the per-unit fixed costs, which could lead to further volume declines. the california utilities manage their risk within the parameters of their market risk management framework. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2018 , the total var of the california utilities' natural gas and electric positions was not material, and the procurement activities were in compliance with the procurement plans filed with and approved by the cpuc. interest rate risk we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates primarily as a result of our having issued short- and long-term debt. subject to regulatory constraints, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to interest rate changes and to lower our overall cost of borrowing. the table below shows the nominal amount of debt: nominal amount of debt (1) (dollars in millions) december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas short-term: california utilities $ 547 $ 291 $ 256 $ 369 $ 253 $ 116 other 1,532 1,171 long-term: california utilities fixed-rate $ 8,377 $ 4,918 $ 3,459 $ 7,877 $ 4,868 $ 3,009 california utilities variable-rate 78 78 other fixed-rate 11,531 8,367 variable-rate 2,091 907 (1) after the effects of interest rate swaps. before the effects of acquisition-related fair value adjustments, reductions/increases for unamortized discount/premium and reduction for debt issuance costs, and excluding capital lease obligations and build-to-suit lease. interest rate risk sensitivity analysis measures interest rate risk by calculating the estimated changes in earnings that would result from a hypothetical change in market interest rates. earnings are affected by changes in interest rates on short-term debt and variable long-term debt. if weighted-average interest rates on short-term debt outstanding at december 31, 2018 increased or decreased by 10 percent, the change in earnings over the next 12-month period ended december 31, 2019 would be approximately $6 million. if interest rates increased or decreased by 10 percent on all variable-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2018 , after considering the effects of interest rate swaps, the change in earnings over the next 12-month period ended december 31, 2019 would be $5 million. 129 we provide further information about debt and interest rate swap transactions in notes 7 and 11, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we also are subject to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the assets of our pension plans, other postretirement benefit plans, and sdg&amp;e's ndt. however, we expect the effects of these fluctuations, as they relate to the california utilities, to be recovered in future rates. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss that would be incurred as a result of nonperformance by our counterparties on their contractual obligations. we monitor credit risk through a credit-approval process and the assignment and monitoring of credit limits. we establish these credit limits based on risk and return considerations under terms customarily available in the industry. as with market risk, we have policies governing the management of credit risk that are administered by the respective credit departments for each of the california utilities and, on a combined basis, for all non-cpuc regulated affiliates and overseen by their separate risk management committees. this oversight includes calculating current and potential credit risk on a daily basis and monitoring actual balances in comparison to approved limits. we avoid concentration of counterparties whenever possible, and we believe our credit policies significantly reduce overall credit risk. these policies include an evaluation of: prospective counterparties' financial condition (including credit ratings); collateral requirements; the use of standardized agreements that allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty; and downgrade triggers. we believe that we have provided adequate reserves for counterparty nonperformance. when its development projects become operational, sempra energy relies significantly on the ability of suppliers to perform under long-term agreements and on our ability to enforce contract terms in the event of nonperformance. also, the factors that we consider in evaluating a development project include negotiating customer and supplier agreements and, therefore, we rely on these agreements for future performance. we also may condition our decision to go forward on development projects on first obtaining these customer and supplier agreements. as noted above in interest rate risk, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate exposure to interest rate changes and to lower the overall cost of borrowing. we would be exposed to interest rate fluctuations on the underlying debt should a counterparty to the swap fail to perform. credit ratings the credit ratings of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas remained at investment grade levels in 2018. at december 31, 2018 : moody's issuer rating for sempra energy was baa1 with a negative outlook, a2 with a stable outlook for sdg&amp;e and its long-term rating for socalgas was a1 with a stable outlook; s&amp;p's issuer credit rating for sempra energy was bbb+ with a negative outlook, a- with a negative outlook for sdg&amp;e and a with a negative outlook for socalgas; and fitch ratings' long-term issuer default rating for sempra energy was bbb+ with a stable outlook, a- with a stable outlook for sdg&amp;e and a with a stable outlook for socalgas. on january 21, 2019, s&amp;p downgraded sdg&amp;e's issuer credit rating to bbb+ from a- while maintaining its negative outlook. on january 22, 2019, fitch ratings affirmed sdg&amp;e's long-term issuer default rating at a- but revised the ratings outlook to negative from stable. on january 24, 2019, moody's placed sdg&amp;e under review for downgrade. these ratings actions were primarily the result of recent wildfires in california in counties outside of the california utilities' electric service territory and the possible inability to recover costs and expenses in cases where california ious, like the california utilities, are determined to have had equipment be the cause of a fire. a downgrade of sempra energy's or any of its subsidiaries' credit ratings or rating outlooks may result in a requirement for collateral to be posted in the case of certain financing arrangements and may materially and adversely affect the market prices of their equity and debt securities, the rates at which borrowings are made and commercial paper is issued, and the various fees on 130 their outstanding credit facilities. this could make it more costly for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas and sempra energy's other subsidiaries to issue debt securities, to borrow under credit facilities and to raise certain other types of financing. we provide additional information about our credit ratings at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas in item 1a. risk factors. sempra energy has agreed that, if the credit rating of oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas have committed lines of credit to provide liquidity and to support commercial paper. borrowings under these facilities bear interest at benchmark rates plus a margin that varies with market index rates and each borrower's credit rating. each facility also requires a commitment fee on available unused credit that may be impacted by each borrower's credit rating. under these committed lines: if sempra energy were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 to 50 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 to 10 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. if sdg&amp;e were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 bps. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 bps. if socalgas were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 to 25 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 to 5 bps, depending on the severity of the downgrade. for sempra energy and sdg&amp;e, their credit ratings also may affect their respective credit limits related to derivative instruments, as we discuss in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. foreign currency and inflation rate risk we discuss our foreign currency and inflation exposure in item 7. md&amp;a impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations. the hypothetical effect for every 10 percent appreciation in the u.s. dollar against the currencies of mexico, chile and peru in which we have operations and investments are as follows: hypothetical effects from 10 percent strengthening of u.s. dollar (dollars in millions) hypothetical effects translation of 2018 earnings to u.s. dollars (1) $ (19 ) transactional exposure, before the effects of foreign currency derivatives (2) 100 translation of net assets of foreign subsidiaries and investment in foreign entities (3) (198 ) (1) amount represents the impact to earnings, primarily at our south american businesses, for a change in the average exchange rate throughout the reporting period. (2) amount primarily represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2018 on monetary assets and liabilities and translation of non-u.s. deferred income tax balances at our mexican subsidiaries. (3) amount represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2018 recorded to oci at the end of each reporting period, primarily at our south american businesses. monetary assets and liabilities at our mexican subsidiaries that are denominated in u.s. dollars may fluctuate significantly throughout the year. these monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. based on a net monetary liability position of $3.5 billion, including those related to our investments in jvs, at december 31, 2018 , the hypothetical effect of a 10 percent increase in the mexican inflation rate is approximately $67 million lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense for our consolidated subsidiaries, as well as lower equity earnings for our jvs. 131risk factors 30 risk factors and in item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity socalgas. customers and demand socalgas and sdg&amp;e sell, distribute and transport natural gas. socalgas purchases and stores natural gas for its core customers in its territory and sdg&amp;e's territory on a combined portfolio basis. socalgas also offers natural gas transportation and storage services for others. california utilities natural gas customer meters and volumes customer meter count volumes (bcf) (1) december 31, years ended december 31, 2019 2019 2018 2017 sdg&amp;e: residential 862,810 commercial 28,870 electric generation and transportation 3,110 natural gas sales 45 40 40 transportation 26 28 35 total 894,790 71 68 75 socalgas: residential 5,755,780 commercial 248,320 industrial 25,110 electric generation and wholesale 40 natural gas sales 329 297 301 transportation 547 553 603 total 6,029,250 876 850 904 (1) includes intercompany sales. for regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. most core customers purchase natural gas directly from socalgas or sdg&amp;e. while core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the california utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. a substantial portion of socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's revenues are from core customers. noncore customers at socalgas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, and large commercial and industrial customers. a portion of socalgas' noncore customers are non-end-users. socalgas' non-end-users include wholesale customers consisting primarily of other utilities, including sdg&amp;e, or municipally owned natural gas distribution systems. noncore customers at sdg&amp;e consist primarily of electric generation and large commercial customers. noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements, as the regulatory framework does not allow us to recover the cost of natural gas procured and delivered to noncore customers. demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the southern california economy, prices of alternative energy products, consumer preference, environmental regulations, legislation, california's energy policy supporting increased electrification and renewable power generation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. other external factors such as weather, the price of electricity, the use of hydroelectric power, the use of and further development of renewable energy resources and energy storage, development of new natural gas supply sources, demand for natural gas outside california, and general economic conditions can also result in significant shifts in market price, which may in turn impact demand. one of the larger sources for natural gas demand is electric generation. natural gas-fired electric generation within southern california (and demand for natural gas supplied to such plants) competes with electric power generated throughout the western u.s. natural gas transported for electric generating plant customers may be affected by the overall demand for electricity, growth in self-generation from rooftop solar, the addition of more efficient gas technologies, new energy efficiency initiatives, and the extent that regulatory changes in electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the california 15 utilities' respective service areas. the demand for natural gas may also fluctuate due to volatility in the demand for electricity due to climate change, weather conditions and other impacts, and the availability of competing supplies of electricity such as hydroelectric generation and other renewable energy sources. given the significant quantity of natural gas-fired generation, natural gas is the dispatchable fuel of choice to help ensure electric reliability in our california service territories. the natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and cash provided from operating activities generally is greater during and immediately following the winter heating months. as is prevalent in the industry, but subject to current regulatory limitations, socalgas usually injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (april through october), which reduces cash provided by operating activities during this period, and usually withdraws natural gas from storage during the winter months (november through march), which increases cash provided by operating activities, when customer demand is higher. sempra texas utilities sempra texas utilities is comprised of our equity method investments in oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018, and sharyland holdings, which we acquired in may 2019. we discuss these acquisitions in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. oncor holdings is a direct, wholly owned entity of sempra texas intermediate holding company llc and, at december 31, 2019, owns an 80.25% interest in oncor. tti owns the remaining 19.75% interest in oncor. sempra energy owns an indirect, 50% interest in sharyland holdings, which owns a 100% interest in sharyland utilities. certain ring-fencing measures, existing governance mechanisms and commitments, which we describe in item 1a. risk factors, remain in effect following the merger and are intended to enhance oncor holdings' and oncor's separateness from their owners and to mitigate the risk that these entities would be negatively impacted by the bankruptcy of, or other adverse financial developments affecting, their owners. sempra energy does not control oncor holdings or oncor, and the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. these limitations include limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor boards of directors, as oncor holdings and oncor will continue to have a majority of independent directors. thus, oncor holdings and oncor will continue to be managed independently (i.e., ring-fenced). as such, we account for our 100% ownership interest in oncor holdings as an equity method investment. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our equity method investment in oncor holdings. oncor oncor is a regulated electric transmission and distribution utility that operates in the north-central, eastern, western and panhandle regions of texas. oncor provides the essential service of delivering electricity to end-use consumers through its transmission and distribution systems, as well as providing transmission grid connections to merchant generation facilities and interconnections to other transmission grids in texas. at december 31, 2019 , oncor had approximately 4,165 full-time employees, including approximately 745 employees under collective bargaining agreements. electricity transmission. oncor's electricity transmission business is responsible for the safe and reliable operations of its transmission network and substations. these responsibilities consist of the construction and maintenance of transmission facilities and substations and the monitoring, controlling and dispatching of high-voltage electricity over its transmission facilities in coordination with ercot, which we discuss below in regulation ercot market. at december 31, 2019 , oncor's transmission system included approximately 17,799 circuit miles of transmission lines, 349 transmission stations and 775 distribution substations, which are interconnected to 100 generation facilities totaling 40,687 mw. transmission revenues are provided under tariffs approved by either the puct or, to a small degree related to limited interconnection to other markets, the ferc. network transmission revenues compensate oncor for delivery of electricity over transmission facilities operating at 60 kv and above. other services offered by oncor through its transmission business include system impact studies, facilities studies, transformation service and maintenance of transformer equipment, substations and transmission lines owned by other parties. electricity distribution. oncor's electricity distribution business is responsible for the overall safe and reliable operation of distribution facilities, including electricity delivery, power quality and system reliability. these responsibilities consist of the ownership, management, construction, maintenance and operation of the distribution system within its certificated service area. oncor's distribution system receives electricity from the transmission system through substations and distributes electricity to end-users and wholesale customers through 3,594 distribution feeders. 16 oncor's distribution system included more than 3.6 million points of delivery at december 31, 2019 and consisted of approximately 121,747 miles of overhead lines and underground lines. distribution revenues from residential and small business users are based on actual monthly consumption (kwh) and, depending on size and annual load factor, revenues from large commercial and industrial users are based either on actual monthly demand (kw) or the greater of actual monthly demand (kw) or 80% of peak monthly demand during the prior eleven months. customers and demand. oncor operates the largest transmission and distribution system in texas. oncor delivers electricity to more than 3.6 million homes and businesses in a territory with an estimated population in excess of 10 million and operates more than 139,000 miles of transmission and distribution lines as of december 31, 2019 . the consumers of the electricity oncor delivers are free to choose their electricity supplier from retail electric providers who compete for their business. accordingly, oncor is not a seller of electricity, nor does it purchase electricity for resale. rather, oncor provides transmission services to its electricity distribution business as well as non-affiliated electricity distribution companies, cooperatives and municipalities and distribution services to retail electric providers that sell electricity to retail customers. at december 31, 2019 , oncor's distribution customers consisted of approximately 90 retail electric providers and certain electric cooperatives in its certificated service area. oncor's service territory includes over 120 counties and more than 400 incorporated municipalities, including dallas/fort worth and surrounding suburbs, as well as waco, wichita falls, odessa, midland, tyler and killeen. most of oncor's power lines have been constructed over lands of others pursuant to easements or along public highways, streets and rights-of-way as permitted by law. oncor's revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonality, weather conditions and other electricity usage drivers, with revenues being highest in the summer. competition. oncor operates in certificated areas designated by the puct. the majority of oncor's service territory is single certificated, with oncor as the only certificated transmission and distribution provider. however, in multi-certificated areas of texas, oncor competes with certain utilities and rural electric cooperatives for the right to serve end-use customers. sharyland utilities sharyland utilities is a regulated electric transmission utility that, as of december 31, 2019, owns and operates approximately 65 miles of electric transmission lines in south texas, including a direct current line connecting mexico and assets in mcallen, texas. sharyland utilities is responsible for providing safe, reliable and efficient transmission and substation services and investing to support infrastructure needs throughout the ercot grid, which we discuss below in regulation ercot market. transmission revenues are provided under tariffs approved by the puct. sempra mexico our sempra mexico segment includes the operating companies of our subsidiary, ienova, as well as certain holding companies and risk management activities. ienova develops, owns and operates, or holds interests in, energy infrastructure in mexico in two key energy markets: gas and power. ienova's gas business offers pipeline services for natural gas, lpg and ethane, as well as storage for lng and lpg and distribution of natural gas. currently, ienova is constructing marine and land terminals for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. in its power business, ienova operates a natural-gas-fired combined-cycle plant and wind and solar power generation facilities, and is constructing additional wind and solar power generation facilities. sempra energy owns 66.6% of ienova as of december 31, 2019 , with the remaining shares held by nci and traded on the mexican stock exchange under the symbol ienova. the mexican national banking and securities commission (comisi n nacional bancaria y de valores, or cnbv) regulates the shares, which are registered with the mexican national securities registry (registro nacional de valores) maintained by the cnbv. gas business pipelines and related assets/facilities. at december 31, 2019 , sempra mexico's assets/facilities consisted of 1,850 miles of natural gas transmission pipelines, 13 compressor stations, 139 miles of ethane pipelines, 118 miles of lpg pipelines and one lpg storage terminal in mexico. these assets are contracted under long-term, u.s. dollar-based agreements with major industry participants such as the cfe, cenagas, pemex, shell, gazprom, saavi energy solutions, llc and other similar counterparties. at december 31, 2019 , our pipeline assets in mexico had design capacity of approximately 16,501 mmcf per day of natural gas, 204 mmcf per day of ethane gas, 106,000 barrels per day of ethane liquid, 34,000 barrels per day of lpg transmission and 80,000 barrels of lpg storage. 17 lng regasification. sempra mexico operates its eca lng regasification facility on land it owns in baja california, mexico. the eca lng regasification facility is capable of processing one bcf of natural gas per day and generates revenues from reservation and usage fees under terminal capacity agreements and nitrogen injection service agreements with shell and gazprom, expiring in 2028, that permit them, together, to use one-half of the terminal's capacity. sempra lng has an agreement with sempra mexico to supply lng to the eca lng regasification facility. in connection with sempra lng's purchase agreement with tangguh psc, sempra mexico purchases from sempra lng the lng delivered by tangguh psc to the eca lng regasification facility. sempra mexico uses the natural gas produced from this lng and natural gas purchased in the market or through sempra lng's marketing operations to supply a contract for the sale of natural gas to mexico's national electric company, the cfe, at prices that are based on the socal border index. if lng volumes received from tangguh psc are not sufficient to satisfy the commitment to the cfe, sempra mexico may purchase natural gas from sempra lng's marketing operations. although the lng purchase agreement with tangguh psc specifies a number of cargoes to be delivered annually, actual cargoes delivered have been significantly lower than the maximum specified under the agreement. as a result, sempra lng is contractually required to make monthly indemnity payments to sempra mexico for failure to deliver the contracted lng. the lng regasification business is impacted by worldwide lng market prices. high lng prices in markets outside the market in which sempra mexico's eca lng regasification facility operates have resulted and could continue to result in lower than expected deliveries of lng cargoes to the eca lng regasification facility, which could increase costs if sempra mexico is instead required to obtain lng in the open market at prevailing prices. any inability to obtain expected lng cargoes could also impact sempra mexico's ability to maintain the minimum level of lng required to keep the eca lng regasification facility in operation at the proper temperature. prices in international lng markets through which sempra mexico must purchase natural gas to meet its contractual obligations to deliver natural gas to customers may also affect sempra mexico's lng marketing operations, which could have an adverse impact on its earnings, but may be mitigated in part by the indemnity payments discussed above. sempra mexico's lng marketing operations sell natural gas to the cfe and other customers under supply agreements. sempra mexico recognizes the revenue from the sale of natural gas upon transfer of the natural gas via pipelines to the customers at the agreed upon delivery points, and in the case of the cfe, at its thermoelectric power plants. natural gas distribution. sempra mexico's natural gas distribution regulated utility, ecogas, operates in three separate distribution zones in mexico with approximately 2,571 miles of pipeline, and had approximately 132,000 customer meters (serving more than 425,000 residential, commercial and industrial consumers) with sales volume of approximately eight mmcf per day in 2019 . ecogas relies on supply and transportation services from sempra lng and socalgas for the natural gas that it distributes to its customers. if these affiliates fail to perform and ecogas is unable to obtain supplies of natural gas from alternate sources, ecogas could lose customers and sales volume and could also be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility. ecogas faces competition from other distributors of natural gas in each of its three distribution zones in mexicali, chihuahua and la laguna-durango as other distributors of natural gas build or consider building natural gas distribution systems. power business renewable power generation. sempra mexico develops, invests in and operates renewable energy generation facilities that have long-term ppas to sell the electricity they generate to its customers, which are generally load serving entities, as well as industrial and other customers. load serving entities sell electric service to their end-users and wholesale customers upon receipt of our power delivery, while industrial and other customers consume the electricity to run their facilities . at december 31, 2019 , sempra mexico had a fully contracted, total nameplate capacity of 658 mw related to its fully operating wind and solar energy generation facilities. natural gas-fired generation. tdm is a 625-mw natural gas-fired power plant located in mexicali, baja california, mexico that generates revenue from selling electricity and/or resource adequacy to the california iso and to governmental, public utility and wholesale power marketing entities. it also has an ema with sempra lng for energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. under the ema, tdm pays fees to sempra lng for these revenue-generating services. tdm also purchases fuel from sempra lng. sempra mexico records revenue for the sale of power generated by tdm and records cost of sales for the purchases of natural gas and energy management services provided by sempra lng. tdm competes daily with other generating plants that supply power into the california electricity market. several of the wholesale markets supplied by merchant power plants have experienced significant pricing declines due to excess supply. ienova 18 manages commodity price risk at tdm by optimizing a mix of forward on-peak energy sales, daily and hourly spot market sales of capacity, energy and ancillary services, and longer-term structured transactions, and by avoiding short positions. demand and competition the overall demand for natural gas distribution services increases during the winter months, while the overall demand for electricity increases during the summer months. ienova competes with mexican and foreign companies for certain new energy infrastructure projects in mexico. some of its competitors (including public or state-operated companies and their affiliates) may have better access to capital and greater financial and other resources, which could give them a competitive advantage in bidding for such projects. sempra mexico's pipeline and storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated pipeline and storage facilities. they compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. sempra mexico's gas business competitors include, among others: bulkmatic transport company, inc. glencore plc cenagas kinder morgan, inc. corporativo lodemo, s.a. de c.v. monterra energy llc engie s.a. pemex fermaca global lp tc energy corporation generation from sempra mexico's renewable energy assets is susceptible to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, inclement weather and hours of sunlight. because sempra mexico sells power that it generates at its energ a sierra ju rez wind power generation facility into california, sempra mexico's future performance and the demand for renewable energy may be impacted by u.s. state mandated requirements to deliver a portion of total energy load from renewable energy sources. the rules governing these requirements in california are generally known as the rps program. in california, certification of a generation project by the cec as an err allows the purchase of output from such generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the rps program requirements, if such purchase meets the provisions of sb x1-2. the rps program may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by sempra mexico, particularly the demand from california's utilities. we expect to receive err certification for all our sempra mexico renewable facilities providing power to california as they become operational. sempra mexico's power business competitors include, among others: acciona s.a. pattern energy group, inc. engie s.a. salka energy enel spa terra-gen, llc iberdrola s.a. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators for sempra mexico include sales volume, plant or facility availability, capacity utilization and, for its distribution operations, customer count and consumption. additional noncash performance indicators include obtaining and completing (on time and on budget) major projects, compliance with reliability and regulatory standards, and goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory performance. sempra renewables sempra renewables developed, owned and operated, or held interests in, wind energy generation facilities in the u.s. that had long-term ppas to sell the electricity and the related green energy attributes they generated to its customers, which were generally load serving entities. in december 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of its solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects, as well as its ownership interest in one wind facility, to a subsidiary of con ed. in april 2019, sempra renewables completed the sale of its remaining wind assets and investments to aep. upon completion of the sales, remaining nominal business activities at sempra renewables were subsumed into parent and other and the sempra renewables segment ceased to exist. we provide additional information about these sales in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 19 sempra lng sempra lng develops projects for the export of lng, holds an interest in a facility for the export of lng, owns and operates natural gas pipelines, and buys, sells and transports natural gas through its marketing operations, all within the u.s. and mexico. lng liquefaction cameron lng jv. sempra lng and three project co-owners (total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd., and japan lng investment, llc, a company jointly owned by mitsubishi corporation and nippon yusen kabushiki kaisha) hold interests in cameron lng jv for the development, construction and operation of a three-train natural gas liquefaction export facility at the existing cameron lng, llc facility formerly used for regasification in hackberry, louisiana, a project developed and permitted by sempra lng. sempra lng accounts for its 50.2% equity interest in cameron lng jv under the equity method. in august 2019, commercial operation of train 1 commenced under cameron lng jv's tolling agreements. in february 2020, train 2 reached substantial completion and we expect to commence commercial operation in the coming days. we believe it is reasonable to expect train 3 will commence commercial operation in the third quarter of 2020. the three liquefaction trains are designed to have a nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., which subscribe the full nameplate capacity of three trains at the facility. in addition, cameron lng jv is working on the development of up to two additional trains. we discuss cameron lng jv in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and the construction of the first three trains and the potential for an additional two trains in item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity sempra lng and in item 1a. risk factors. demand and competition. technological advances associated with shale gas and tight oil production have significantly reduced the need for north american lng import facilities and increased interest in liquefaction and export opportunities. at current forward gas prices, u.s. gulf coast liquefaction is one of the most price competitive potential lng supply in the world, resulting from many factors, including: high levels of developed and undeveloped north american unconventional natural gas and tight oil resources relative to domestic consumption levels; increasing gas and oil drilling productivity and decreasing unit costs of gas production; low breakeven prices of marginal north american unconventional gas production; and proximity to ample existing gas transmission pipeline and underground gas storage capacity. brownfield liquefaction is particularly price competitive due to existing lng tankage and berths. global lng competition may limit u.s. lng exports, as international liquefaction projects attempt to match u.s. gulf coast lng production costs and customer contractual rights such as volume and destination flexibility. it is expected that u.s. lng exports will increase competition for current and future global natural gas demand, and thereby facilitate development of a global commodity market for natural gas and lng. our lng liquefaction business' major domestic and international competitors currently include, among others, the following companies and their related lng affiliates: annova lng lng limited cheniere energy next decade energy transfer pembina resources freeport lng tellurian inc. golden pass lng venture global partners additionally, our cameron lng jv co-owners and customers compete globally to market and sell lng to end users, including gas and electric utilities located in lng importing countries around the world. by providing liquefaction services, cameron lng jv competes indirectly with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the global lng market. in addition to the u.s., these competitors are located in the middle east, southeast asia, africa, south america, australia and europe. 20 midstream sempra lng has a 40-mile natural gas pipeline in south louisiana. the cameron interstate pipeline links the cameron lng facility in cameron parish, louisiana, to five interstate pipelines that connect to major markets in the midwest, northeast and southeast u.s. in february 2019, sempra lng completed the sale of its non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) to an affiliate of arclight capital partners. upon completion of the sale, sempra lng has no operational natural gas storage capacity. demand and competition. sempra lng's pipeline business competes with other regulated and unregulated pipelines, primarily on the basis of price (in terms of transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets. marketing operations sempra lng provides natural gas marketing, trading and risk management services through the utilization and optimization of contracted lng, natural gas supply and transportation, as well as by optimizing its assets in the short-term services market. additionally, it sells electricity under short-term and long-term contracts and into the spot market and other competitive markets. sempra lng's marketing operations have an lng sale and purchase agreement with tangguh psc for the supply of the equivalent of 500 mmcf of natural gas per day from tangguh psc's indonesian liquefaction facility with delivery to sempra mexico's eca lng regasification facility at a price based on the socal border index for natural gas. the lng purchase agreement allows tangguh psc to divert certain lng volumes to other global markets in exchange for cash differential payments to sempra lng. sempra lng may also enter into short-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified at the terminal for sale to other parties. sempra lng is contracted to sell lng or, if deliveries of lng cargoes are not sufficient, natural gas, to sempra mexico that allows sempra mexico to satisfy its obligation under supply agreements with the cfe, tdm and other customers. these revenues are adjusted for indemnity payments and profit sharing, as discussed in sempra mexico gas business lng regasification above. sempra lng also has an ema with sempra mexico to provide energy marketing, scheduling and other related services to sempra mexico's tdm power plant to support its sales of generated power into the california electricity market. we discuss the ema in sempra mexico power business natural gas-fired generation above. key noncash performance indicators key noncash performance indicators at sempra lng include natural gas sales volume, plant or facility availability and capacity utilization. additional noncash performance indicators include goals related to safety, environmental considerations and regulatory compliance, and on-time and on-budget completion of development projects. discontinued operations in january 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses, which previously constituted our sempra south american utilities segment. these businesses include our 100% interest in chilquinta energ a in chile, our 83.6% interest in luz del sur in peru and our interests in two energy-services companies, tecnored and tecsur, which provide electric construction and infrastructure services to chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, respectively, as well as third parties. these businesses and certain activities associated with these businesses are presented as discontinued operations, as the sales represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial results. we do not plan to have significant continuing involvement in or be able to exercise significant influence on the operating or financial policies of these operations after they are sold. chilquinta energ a is an electricity distribution utility in chile, with an approximate 9% share of the market at december 31, 2019, serving a population of approximately 2 million in the regions of valpara so and maule in central chile, with a service area covering approximately 4,100 square miles. chilquinta energ a also owns a 50% interest in eletrans, which is engaged in the construction, operation and maintenance of power transmission facilities in chile. luz del sur is an electric distribution utility that serves a population of approximately 4.9 million in the southern zone of metropolitan lima, peru, with a service area covering approximately 1,400 square miles. luz del sur indirectly owns and operates santa teresa, a 100-mw hydroelectric power plant located in the cusco region of peru. luz del sur delivers approximately 30% of all power used in peru. chilquinta energ a and luz del sur serve primarily regulated customers and recognize revenues based on tariffs that are set by the cne in chile and the osinergmin in peru that are based on an efficient model distribution company defined by those agencies 21 and intended to cover the costs of the model company. because the tariffs are not based on the costs of the specific utility, they may not result in full cost recovery. the tariffs are designed to provide for a pass-through to customers of transmission and energy charges, recovery of reasonable operating and administrative costs, incentives to reduce costs and make needed capital investments and a regulated rate of return on the distributor's regulated asset base. the cne's review process for authorized distribution and transmission rates generally remains in effect for a period of four years. the cne reviews rates for four-year periods related to distribution and transmission separately on an alternating basis every two years. the components of tariffs for luz del sur are reviewed and adjusted every four years. in september 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our equity interests in our peruvian businesses for an aggregate base purchase price of $3.59 billion, subject to customary closing adjustments for working capital and changes in net indebtedness. in october 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our equity interests in our chilean businesses for an aggregate base purchase price of $2.23 billion, subject to customary adjustments for working capital and changes in net indebtedness and other adjustments. we expect the sales to close in the first half of 2020. we provide further information about discontinued operations in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. regulation california state utility regulation the california utilities are principally regulated at the state level by the cpuc, cec and carb . the cpuc: consists of five commissioners appointed by the governor of california for staggered, six-year terms; regulates sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in u.s. utility regulation; has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric generation, transmission and distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in california; conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines and conducts investigations into various matters, such as safety, deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies; and regulates the interactions and transactions of the california utilities with sempra energy and its other affiliates. the cpuc also oversees and regulates other products and services, including solar and wind energy, bioenergy, alternative energy storage and other forms of renewable energy. in addition, the cpuc's safety and enforcement role includes inspections, investigations and penalty and citation processes for safety violations. the cec publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories. based on these forecasts, the cec: determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs; sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects; promotes energy conservation programs to reduce demand for natural gas and electricity within california; maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within california. the cec conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in california. this forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. this analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the california utilities' long-term investment decisions. california requires certain of its electric retail sellers, including sdg&amp;e, to deliver a significant percentage of their retail energy sales from renewable energy sources. the rules governing this requirement, administered by both the cpuc and the cec, are generally known as the rps program. ab 32, the california global warming solutions act of 2006, assigns responsibility to carb for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing ghg emissions. the law requires carb to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective ghg emission reductions, including a statewide ghg emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of ghg emissions. carb is a department within the california environmental protection agency, an organization that reports directly to the governor's office. sempra lng and sempra mexico are also subject to the rules and regulations of carb. 22 the operation and maintenance of socalgas' natural gas storage facilities are regulated by calgem, as well as various other state and local agencies. texas state utility regulation oncor's and sharyland utilities' transmission and distribution rates are regulated at the state and city level by the puct and certain cities. the puct has original jurisdiction over transmission and distribution rates and services in unincorporated areas and in those municipalities that have ceded original jurisdiction to the puct, and has exclusive appellate jurisdiction to review the rate and service orders and ordinances of municipalities. generally, the texas pura prohibits the collection of any rates or charges by a public utility (as defined by pura) that do not have the prior approval of the appropriate regulatory authority (i.e., the puct or the municipality with original jurisdiction). at the state level, pura requires owners or operators of transmission facilities to provide open-access wholesale transmission services to third parties at rates and terms that are nondiscriminatory and comparable to the rates and terms of the utility's own use of its system. the puct has adopted rules implementing the state open-access requirements for all utilities that are subject to the puct's jurisdiction over transmission services, including oncor. u.s. utility regulation the california utilities are also regulated at the federal level by the ferc, the nrc, the epa, the doe and the dot. the ferc regulates the california utilities' interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the application of the uniform systems of accounts. in the case of sdg&amp;e, the ferc also regulates the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale. the energy policy act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. the california ious' transmission facilities are under the operational control of the california iso. oncor and sharyland utilities operate within the ercot market, which we discuss below. to a small degree related to limited interconnections to other markets, oncor's transmission revenues are provided under tariffs approved by the ferc. the nrc oversees the licensing, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities in the u.s., including songs, in which sdg&amp;e owns a 20% interest and which was permanently retired in 2013. nrc and various state regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. we provide further discussion of songs matters, including the closure and pending decommissioning of the facility, in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the epa implements federal laws to protect human health and the environment, including federal laws on air quality, water quality, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, and hazardous waste disposal and remediation. the epa also sets national environmental standards that state and tribal governments implement through their own regulations. the california utilities, oncor and sharyland utilities are therefore subject to an interrelated framework of environmental laws and regulations. the dot, through phmsa, has established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable to the california utilities' natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines, as well as natural gas storage facilities. the dot has certified the cpuc to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in california. see other u.s. regulation below. ercot market oncor and sharyland utilities operate within the ercot market, which represents approximately 90% of the electricity consumption in texas. ercot is the regional reliability coordinating organization for member electricity systems in texas and the iso of the interconnected transmission grid for those systems. ercot is responsible for ensuring reliability, adequacy and security of the electric systems, as well as nondiscriminatory access to transmission service by all wholesale market participants in the ercot region. ercot's membership consists of corporate and associate members, including electric cooperatives, municipal power agencies, independent generators, independent power marketers, transmission service providers, distribution services providers, independent retail electric providers and consumers. the puct has primary jurisdiction over the ercot market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of power supply across texas' main interconnected transmission grid. oncor and sharyland utilities, along with other owners of transmission and distribution facilities in texas, assist the ercot iso in its operations. each of these texas utilities has planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance responsibility for the portion of the transmission grid and for the load-serving substations it owns, primarily within its certificated distribution service area. each participates with the ercot iso and other ercot utilities in obtaining regulatory approvals and planning, designing, constructing and upgrading transmission lines in order to remove existing 23 constraints and interconnect generation on the ercot transmission grid. the transmission line projects are necessary to meet reliability needs, support energy production and increase bulk power transfer capability. oncor and sharyland utilities are subject to reliability standards adopted and enforced by the texas reliability entity, inc., an independent organization that develops reliability standards for the ercot region and monitors and enforces compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation (including critical infrastructure protection) standards and ercot protocols. other state and local regulation within the u.s. the scaqmd is the air pollution control agency responsible for regulating stationary sources of air pollution in the south coast air basin in southern california. the district's territory covers all of orange county and the urban portions of los angeles, san bernardino and riverside counties. sdg&amp;e has electric franchises with the two counties and the 27 cities in or adjoining its electric service territory, and natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory. these franchises allow sdg&amp;e to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas and/or electricity. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. some of sdg&amp;e's natural gas and electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range from 2021 to 2035, including the city of san diego, which is scheduled to expire in january 2021. the city of san diego has launched the process to reevaluate sdg&amp;e's natural gas and electric franchises, consistent with the terms of the city charter. socalgas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and the 223 cities in its service territory. these franchises allow socalgas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2020 to 2069. other u.s. regulation the ferc regulates certain sempra lng assets pursuant to the federal power act and natural gas act, which provide for ferc jurisdiction over, among other things, sales of wholesale power in interstate commerce, transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting of lng facilities. sempra lng's investment in cameron lng jv is subject to regulations of the doe regarding the export of lng. the ferc may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the ferc to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. ferc-regulated rates at sempra lng are: market-based for wholesale electricity sales cost-based for the transportation of natural gas market-based for the purchase and sale of lng and natural gas the california utilities, sempra lng and businesses that sempra lng invests in are subject to the dot rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety. phmsa, acting through the office of pipeline safety, is responsible for administering the dot's national regulatory program to assure the safe transportation of natural gas, petroleum and other hazardous materials by pipelines, including pipelines associated with natural gas storage, and develops regulations and other approaches to risk management to assure safety in design, construction, testing, operation, maintenance and emergency response of pipeline facilities. the california utilities, sempra lng and sempra mexico are also subject to regulation by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission. foreign regulation operations and projects in our sempra mexico segment are subject to regulation by the cre, the mexican safety, energy and environment agency (agencia de seguridad, energ a y ambiente), the mexican secretary of energy (secretar a de energ a or sener) and other labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in mexico. licenses and permits our utilities in california and texas obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for, as applicable, the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, including electric generation and natural gas storage facilities, some of which may require periodic renewal. sempra mexico obtains numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their electric and natural gas distribution, generation and transmission systems from the local government where the service is provided. the permits for generation, transportation, storage and distribution operations at sempra mexico are generally for 30-year terms, with options for renewal under certain regulatory conditions. 24 sempra mexico and sempra lng obtain licenses and permits for the construction, operation and expansion of lng facilities and for the import and export of lng and natural gas. sempra mexico also obtains licenses and permits for the construction and operation of facilities for the receipt, storage and delivery of liquid fuels. sempra lng obtains permits, authorizations and licenses for the construction and operation of natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, and in connection with participation in the wholesale electricity market. most of the permits and licenses associated with sempra lng's construction and operations are for periods generally in alignment with the construction cycle or life of the asset and in many cases are greater than 20 years. ratemaking mechanisms california utilities general rate case proceedings. a cpuc grc proceeding is designed to set sufficient base rates to allow the california utilities to recover their reasonable forecasted operating costs and to provide the opportunity to realize their authorized rates of return on their investment. the proceeding generally establishes the test year revenue requirements, which authorizes how much the california utilities can collect from their customers, and provides for attrition, or annual increases in revenue requirements, for each year following the test year. in january 2020, the cpuc implemented a four-year grc cycle for california ious. the california utilities were directed to file a petition for modification to revise their 2019 grc to add two additional years, resulting in a transitional five-year grc period (2019-2023). cost of capital proceedings. a cpuc cost of capital proceeding determines a utility's authorized capital structure and authorized return on rate base, which is a weighted-average of the authorized returns on debt, preferred stock and common equity (referred to as return on equity or roe), weighted on a basis consistent with the authorized capital structure. the authorized return on rate base approved by the cpuc is the rate that the california utilities use to establish customer rates to recover costs to finance investments in cpuc-regulated electric distribution and generation, as well as natural gas distribution, transmission and storage assets. a cost of capital proceeding also addresses the ccm, which considers changes in interest rates based on the applicable 12-month average moody's utility bond index. the ccm was reauthorized in the 2020 cost of capital proceeding and will continue through 2022. the ccm, if triggered, could automatically update the authorized cost of debt based on actual costs, and update the authorized roe up or down by one-half of the change in the applicable 12-month average moody's utility bond index. we discuss the cost of capital in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. transmission rate cases. sdg&amp;e files separately with the ferc for its authorized roe on ferc-regulated electric transmission operations and assets. the proceeding establishes a roe and a formulaic rate whereby rates are determined using (1) a base period of historical costs and a forecast of capital investments, and (2) a true-up period, similar to balancing account treatment, that is designed to provide earnings equal to sdg&amp;e's actual cost of service including its authorized return on investment. sdg&amp;e makes annual information filings in december to update rates for the following calendar year. sdg&amp;e may also file for roe incentives that might apply under ferc rules. sdg&amp;e's debt-to-equity ratio is set annually based on the actual ratio at the end of each year. we discuss sdg&amp;e's to5 filing with the ferc in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. incentive mechanisms. the cpuc applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all california ious, under which the california utilities have earnings potential above authorized cpuc base operating margin if they achieve or exceed specific performance and operating goals. generally, for performance-based awards, if performance is above or below specific benchmarks, the utility is eligible for financial awards or subject to financial penalties. sdg&amp;e has incentive mechanisms associated with: operational incentives (electric reliability) energy efficiency socalgas has incentive mechanisms associated with: energy efficiency natural gas procurement unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services 25 other cost-based recovery. the cpuc, and the ferc as it relates to sdg&amp;e, authorize the california utilities to collect revenue requirements for operating costs and capital related costs (such as depreciation, taxes and return on rate base) from customers, including: costs to purchase natural gas and electricity; costs associated with administering public purpose, demand response, and customer energy efficiency programs; other programmatic activities, such as gas distribution, gas transmission, gas storage integrity management and wildfire mitigation; and costs associated with third party liability insurance premiums. authorized costs are recovered as the commodity or service is delivered. to the extent authorized amounts collected vary from actual costs, the differences are generally recovered or refunded within a subsequent period based on the nature of the balancing account mechanism. in general, the revenue recognition criteria for balanced costs billed to customers are met at the time the costs are incurred. because these costs are substantially recovered in rates through a balancing account mechanism, changes in these costs are reflected as changes in revenues. the cpuc and the ferc may impose various review procedures before authorizing recovery or refund for programs authorized, including limitations on the total cost of the program, revenue requirement limits or reviews of costs for reasonableness. these procedures could result in disallowances of recovery from ratepayers. sempra texas utilities rates and cost recovery. oncor's and sharyland utilities' rates are regulated by the puct and certain cities and are subject to regulatory rate-setting processes and annual earnings oversight. this regulatory treatment does not provide any assurance as to achievement of earnings levels. their rates are regulated based on an analysis of the respective utility's costs and capital structure, as reviewed and approved in regulatory proceedings. rate regulation is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, there is no assurance that the puct will judge all of the texas utilities' costs to have been prudently incurred, that the puct will not reduce the amount of invested capital included in the capital structure that the texas utilities' rates are based upon, that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that produce full recovery of the texas utilities' costs or that their authorized roe will not be reduced. the pura allows utilities to file, under certain circumstances, once per year and up to four rate adjustments between comprehensive base rate proceedings to recover distribution-related investments on an interim basis. the puct's substantive rules also allow the texas utilities to update their transmission rates periodically on an interim basis to reflect changes in invested capital. these capital tracker provisions encourage investment in the electric system to help ensure reliability and efficiency by allowing for timely recovery of and return on new investments. capital structure and return on equity. the puct approved rates in oncor's and sharyland utilities' 2017 rate reviews that took effect in november 2017. oncor's puct-authorized roe is 9.8% and its authorized regulatory capital structure is 57.5% debt to 42.5% equity. sharyland utilities' puct-authorized roe is 9.7% and its authorized regulatory capital structure is 55% debt to 45% equity. sempra mexico ecogas' revenues are derived from service and distribution fees charged to its customers in pesos. the price ecogas pays to purchase natural gas, which is based on international price indices, is passed through directly to its customers. the service and distribution fees charged by ecogas are regulated by the cre, which performs a review of rates every five years and monitors prices charged to end-users. the tariffs operate under a return-on-asset-base model. in the annual tariff adjustment, rates are adjusted to account for inflation or fluctuations in exchange rates, and inflation indexing includes separate u.s. and mexican cost components so that u.s. costs can be included in the final distribution rates. environmental matters we discuss environmental issues affecting us in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions. hazardous substances the cpuc's hazardous waste collaborative mechanism allows california's ious to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain superfund sites. this mechanism permits the california utilities to recover in rates 26 90% of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70% of the related insurance-litigation expenses. in addition, the california utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates. we record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. in addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the hazardous waste collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets. air and water quality the natural gas and electric industries are subject to increasingly stringent air quality and ghg standards, such as those established by carb and scaqmd. the california utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards. we discuss ghg standards and credits further in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss environmental matters concerning socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1a. risk factors. other matters information about our executive officers information about executive officers at sempra energy name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position jeffrey w. martin 58 chairman december 2018 to present chief executive officer may 2018 to present executive vice president and chief financial officer january 2017 to april 2018 chairman, sdg&amp;e november 2015 to december 2016 president, sdg&amp;e october 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, sdg&amp;e january 2014 to december 2016 george w. bilicic jr. 56 president and chief legal officer january 2020 to present group president june 2019 to january 2020 vice chairman of investment banking, lazard, a financial advisory and asset management firm october 2008 to june 2019 dennis v. arriola 59 executive vice president and group president october 2018 to present chief strategy officer and executive vice president of external affairs and south america april 2018 to september 2018 executive vice president - corporate strategy and external affairs january 2017 to april 2018 chairman, socalgas november 2015 to december 2016 chief executive officer, socalgas march 2014 to december 2016 president, socalgas august 2012 to september 2016 trevor i. mihalik 53 executive vice president and chief financial officer may 2018 to present senior vice president december 2013 to april 2018 controller and chief accounting officer july 2012 to april 2018 peter r. wall 48 vice president, controller and chief accounting officer may 2018 to present vice president and chief financial officer, sempra infrastructure january 2017 to april 2018 vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power march 2015 to december 2016 assistant controller december 2012 to march 2015 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2020 . 27 information about executive officers at sdg&amp;e name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position kevin c. sagara 58 chairman and chief executive officer september 2018 to present president, sempra renewables october 2013 to september 2018 scott d. drury 54 president january 2017 to present chief energy supply officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - human resources, diversity and inclusion march 2011 to june 2015 caroline a. winn 56 chief operating officer january 2017 to present chief energy delivery officer june 2015 to december 2016 vice president - customer services april 2010 to june 2015 bruce a. folkmann 52 senior vice president august 2019 to present controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer march 2015 to present vice president march 2015 to august 2019 vice president, controller, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and treasurer, socalgas march 2015 to june 2019 vice president and chief financial officer, sempra u.s. gas &amp; power july 2013 to march 2015 diana l. day 55 chief risk officer august 2019 to present vice president and general counsel january 2019 to present acting general counsel september 2017 to january 2019 vice president of enterprise risk management and compliance, socalgas and sdg&amp;e june 2014 to january 2019 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2020 . 28 information about executive officers at socalgas name age (1) positions held over last five years time in position j. bret lane 60 chief executive officer december 2018 to present principal executive officer november 2018 to december 2018 president september 2016 to march 2019 chief operating officer january 2014 to december 2018 maryam s. brown 44 president march 2019 to present vice president of federal government affairs, sempra energy september 2016 to march 2019 senior energy and environment counsel, office of the speaker of the u.s. house of representatives december 2012 to september 2016 jimmie i. cho 55 chief operating officer january 2019 to present senior vice president of customer services and gas distribution operations april 2018 to january 2019 senior vice president of gas distribution operations, sdg&amp;e april 2018 to january 2019 senior vice president of gas engineering and distribution operations, socalgas and sdg&amp;e october 2017 to april 2018 senior vice president of gas operations and system integrity, socalgas and sdg&amp;e june 2014 to october 2017 mia l. demontigny 47 vice president and chief financial officer, controller, chief accounting officer and treasurer june 2019 to present assistant controller, sempra energy august 2015 to june 2019 u.s. assistant controller, national grid january 2013 to august 2015 david j. barrett 55 vice president and general counsel january 2019 to present associate general counsel of gas infrastructure, sempra energy june 2018 to january 2019 assistant general counsel of gas infrastructure, sempra energy february 2017 to june 2018 assistant general counsel of real estate and environmental, sdg&amp;e october 2010 to february 2017 (1) ages are as of february 27, 2020 . employees of the registrants the table below shows the number of employees for each of our registrants at january 31, 2020 . employees represented by labor unions are covered under various collective bargaining agreements that generally cover wages, benefits, working conditions and other terms and conditions of employment. we did not experience any major work stoppages in 2019 and we maintain good relations with both our union and non-union employees. number of employees number of employees % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements % of employees covered under collective bargaining agreements expiring within one year sempra energy consolidated (1) 13,969 41 % 9 % sdg&amp;e 4,287 30 % 30 % socalgas 7,596 58 % % (1) excludes employees of equity method investees and discontinued operations. 29 company websites company website addresses are sempra energy www.sempra.com sdg&amp;e www.sdge.com socalgas www.socalgas.com we make available free of charge on the sempra energy website, and for sdg&amp;e and socalgas, via a hyperlink on their websites, annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the information on the websites of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas is not part of this report or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec and is not incorporated herein by reference. item 1a. risk factors when evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. these risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. we may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. if any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in, or attached as an exhibit to, this annual report on form 10-k, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a. risks related to sempra energy sempra energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and entities that are accounted for as equity method investments, such as oncor holdings, and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries and equity method investments. we are a holding company and substantially all our assets are owned by our subsidiaries and in entities accounted for as equity method investments, such as oncor holdings. our ability to pay dividends and to meet our debt and other obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from our subsidiaries and equity method investments and, in the short term, our ability to raise capital from external sources. in the long term, cash flows from our subsidiaries and equity method investments depend on their ability to successfully execute their business strategies and generate positive cash flows. in addition, the subsidiaries and other entities accounted for as equity method investments are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends or make loans or distributions to us and could be precluded from paying any such dividends or making any such loans or distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress. the inability to access capital from our subsidiaries and entities accounted for as equity method investments as well from the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and prospects. conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. in difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new or ongoing business activities. this could cause us to reduce non-safety related capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. 30 other factors can affect the availability and cost of credit for our businesses as well as the terms of equity and debt financing, including: adverse changes to laws and regulations in the states and countries in which we operate the overall health of the energy industry volatility in natural gas or electricity prices credit ratings downgrades general economic and financial market conditions in addition, over the past several years, california ious have suffered from the potential catastrophic losses resulting from the impact of the multiple wildfires that spread through northern and southern california (the california wildfires). while the california wildfires occurred in counties outside of sdg&amp;e's electric service territory, the uncertainty about the outcomes of these matters, the possibility of catastrophic wildfires in the future and the failure of the state of california to adequately address the financial and operational risks facing california ious could materially and adversely impact sempra energy's and the california utilities' ability to access the capital markets at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. we are subject to additional risk due to uncertainty relating to the calculation of libor and its potential discontinuance. certain of our financial and commercial agreements, including variable rate indebtedness and credit facilities, as well as interest rate derivatives, incorporate libor as a benchmark for establishing certain rates. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, including discontinuation or replacement. these reforms, if implemented, will cause this benchmark to perform differently than it has performed in the past or to be discontinued entirely or may have other consequences that cannot be predicted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require us to seek to amend the terms of the relevant indebtedness or agreements, which may require significant additional time, effort and/or money in the form of consent payments or otherwise, and may not be possible on comparable terms or at all. in an announcement on july 12, 2018, the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom, which regulates libor, emphasized the need for market participants to transition away from libor before the end of 2021. it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or replaced with a different benchmark rate by 2021. a number of alternatives to libor have been proposed or are being developed, but it is not clear which, if any, will be adopted at this time. any of these alternatives may result in interest payments that are higher than expected or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made on such indebtedness for the interest periods if the applicable libor rate was available in its current form. more generally, any of the foregoing changes, any other changes to libor as a result of national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform or other initiatives, or any further uncertainty surrounding the implementation of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on the cost of our variable rate indebtedness and/or borrowings, the effectiveness of our cash flow hedges and the cost of doing business under our commercial agreements that incorporate libor. sempra energy has substantial investments in mexico and south america that expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geopolitical and management oversight risk. we have significant foreign operations in mexico and south america. our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax and economic risks. certain of these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. all our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which may be driven by changes in their environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations in those rates may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our currency exposures are to the mexican, peruvian and chilean currencies. our mexican subsidiary, ienova, has u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities that give rise to mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have significant deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are denominated in the mexican peso and must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. our primary objective when we attempt to reduce foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. we may attempt to hedge material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities. because we do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in oci caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our south american subsidiaries, whose functional currencies are not the u.s. 31 dollar. we discuss our foreign currency exposure at our mexican subsidiaries in item 7. md&amp;a and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the current u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements. for example, in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. the u.s. and mexico approved the usmca in january 2020 and june 2019, respectively, but canada has yet to provide its approval. the u.s. administration has also implemented changes to u.s. immigration policy and other policies that could impact trade, including increasing tariffs. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. in addition, if the u.s. withdraws from nafta, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our plan to divest certain of our assets and businesses as part of our capital rotation plan. in 2019, we completed the divestiture of all our u.s. solar and wind assets and certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. additionally, we entered into agreements to sell our south american businesses, which we expect to close in the first half of 2020, subject to a number of closing conditions. there can be no assurance that the pending sales will be completed. if we do not successfully manage our current capital rotation plan, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. the tcja may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the tcja significantly changed the irc, including taxation of u.s. corporations by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, altering the expensing of capital expenditures, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign entities at the time of enactment and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. while the u.s department of the treasury has issued final regulations for various sections of the irc, certain aspects of the legislation are still subject to interpretation and will require implementing regulations by the u.s. department of the treasury, as well as state tax authorities, which could lessen or increase adverse impacts. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of this legislation may be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, the ferc or state public utility commissions may respond to the tcja, we expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, will be negatively impacted as a result of an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our domestic utility subsidiaries due to the decrease in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100% expensing of certain capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will reduce any potential adverse impact from these provisions of the tcja. in addition, although the deductibility of our interest cost is not limited for the current year, future earnings may be affected based on our method of allocation across our businesses. it is also uncertain whether additional avenues will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of this legislation. we believe that these strategies, to the extent available and if successfully applied, could lessen any such negative impacts on us, although there can be no assurance in this regard. we discuss the effects of the tcja further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a results of operations. our mandatory convertible preferred stock, as well as any additional equity securities we may sell to raise funds, may dilute the economic and voting interests of our common shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our series a preferred stock, and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our series b preferred stock, which are scheduled to convert into common stock on january 15, 2021 and july 15, 2021, respectively. we may seek to reduce our indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, 32 other equity securities, which, together with the conversion of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock, may materially dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock and materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments or issue additional equity that may materially dilute the voting rights and economic interest of holders of our common stock. our substantial debt service obligations due to our aggregate indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects by, among other things: making it more difficult and/or costly for us to service our debt or pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic or industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate; requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, including interest, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; requiring that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might limit additional borrowings; and imposing specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibiting or limiting our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. additional equity issuances may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities with terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness, should we elect to do so, to a level that allows us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook. credit rating agencies routinely evaluate sempra energy and the california utilities, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the increased risk of wildfires in california, perceived supportiveness of the regulatory environment affecting utility operations, including delays and difficulties in obtaining recovery, or the denial of recovery, for wildfire-related costs, ability to generate cash flows, level of indebtedness, overall financial strength, including credit metrics, diversification beyond the regulated utility business (in the case of sempra energy), and the status of certain capital projects, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as the state of the economy and our industry generally. downgrades and factors causing downgrades of one or both of the california utilities can have a material impact on sempra energy's credit ratings. downgrades, as well as the factors causing such downgrades, of sempra energy's credit ratings could imply diminished credit support available to our subsidiaries. accordingly, downgrades of sempra energy's credit ratings can also have a material impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, including the california utilities. while the current moody's, s&amp;p and fitch (collectively, the rating agencies) issuer credit ratings for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas are investment grade, there is no assurance that these credit ratings will not be downgraded. for sempra energy, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: delays at the cameron lng project and the impact on financial credit metrics; construction of lng liquefaction projects and the impact on business mix and financial credit metrics over time; sempra energy's failure to meet certain financial credit metrics; the cpuc does not effectively implement the more supportive prudency standard associated with the wildfire legislation; or a ratings downgrade at sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas. for sdg&amp;e, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: the cpuc does not effectively implement the more supportive prudency standard associated with the wildfire legislation; 33 a consistent weakening of sdg&amp;e's financial metrics; catastrophic wildfires caused by california electric ious that participate in the wildfire fund, which could exhaust the fund considerably earlier than expected; or a ratings downgrade at sempra energy. for socalgas, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: socalgas' credit metrics do not improve materially after implementation of the grc and cost of capital decisions finalized in 2019; socalgas experiences increased business risk, weakening its standalone business risk profile; deterioration of, or uncertainty in, the political or regulatory environment for local natural gas distribution companies operating in california; or a ratings downgrade at sempra energy. a downgrade of sempra energy's or either of its california utilities' credit ratings may materially and adversely affect the market prices of sempra energy's equity and debt securities, the interest rates at which borrowings are made and debt securities and commercial paper are issued, and the various fees on credit facilities. this could make it significantly more costly for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas and sempra energy's other subsidiaries to borrow money, to issue debt securities and to raise certain other types of capital and/or complete additional financings. such negative credit rating actions, as well as the reasons for such actions could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and the market price of, and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on, our debt securities. dividend requirements associated with our mandatory convertible preferred stock subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our series a preferred stock, and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our series b preferred stock. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on our series a preferred stock and our series b preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and equity method investees to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock generally provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. while we strive to maintain constructive, ongoing communications with all our shareholders, and welcome their views and opinions with the goal of enhancing value for all our shareholders, activist shareholders may, from time to time, engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management. responding to proposals by activist shareholders would require us to incur significant legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses (in the case of a proxy contest) and administrative and associated costs and require significant time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategy. any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control, our ability to execute on our strategy, or changes to the composition of our board of directors or senior management team arising from proposals by activist shareholders or a proxy contest could lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or instability that may be exploited by our competitors and/or other activist shareholders, result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives or attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business and operating results. 34 actions such as those described above could cause significant fluctuations in the trading prices of our common stock and our preferred stock, based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. risks related to all sempra energy businesses severe weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities electric transmission and distribution power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng, and lpg facilities, terminals and storage nuclear power facilities, nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities (through sdg&amp;e's 20% minority interest in songs, which is currently being decommissioned) such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. other global incidents could have similar effects to the extent they reach and impact the territories in which we operate, the customers we serve or the employees who operate our businesses. for example, the coronavirus outbreak currently affecting china and elsewhere has resulted in travel restrictions and impacts on the global economy that could affect our operations in a manner that is not presently possible to predict. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other ghg; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) below under risks related to the california utilities the wildfire legislation may not adequately protect sdg&amp;e from liability from catastrophic wildfires in its service territory. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects, as well as the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by these regulations or requirements or changes thereto. the electric power and natural gas industries are subject to complex government regulations that from time to time undergo significant changes on the federal, state and local levels. the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to significant fines and penalties and result in the temporary or permanent shutdown of certain facilities and operations. in addition, changes to these regulations or how these regulations are interpreted may adversely affect how we conduct our business and may subject us to higher compliance costs. 35 our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell natural gas or electricity to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng facilities, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, agreements and other approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, and any failure to obtain or maintain them could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, construction, expansion, ownership, maintenance and/or operation of electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng, and lpg facilities, terminals and storage; and other projects require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over indigenous tribal land. these permits, licenses, rights-of-way, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses or as a result of litigation. for example, socalgas' franchise agreements with the city of los angeles and los angeles county expire in december 2020 and june 2023, respectively. sdg&amp;e's franchise agreement with the city of san diego is due to expire in january 2021. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs. furthermore, our permits may require compliance by our underlying customers. failure by our customers to comply with permit requirements could result in our permits being modified, suspended or rescinded. in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire or otherwise terminate, we may be required to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties, and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. we may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, if we fail to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect our businesses financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our operations and prospects to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and/or results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. our regulated utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our projects and properties; in each case regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from 36 contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our jvs, are subject to laws and regulations that have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to power generation facilities. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as potential state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. for example, sb 100 requires each california utility, including sdg&amp;e, to procure 50% of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2026, and 60% by 2030. sb 100 also creates the policy of meeting all the state of california's retail electricity supply with a mix of rps-eligible and zero-carbon resources by 2045, for a total of 100% clean energy. the law also includes stipulations that this policy not increase carbon emissions elsewhere in the western grid and not allow resource shuffling, and requires that the cpuc, cec, carb and other state agencies incorporate this into all relevant planning. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings, including in connection with the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility natural gas leak. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the extent of the coverage to these exposures varies over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we may use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent or mitigate losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of 37 these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent or mitigate losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), we face evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. existing business technologies and the deployment of new business technologies represent a large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. additionally, we often rely on third party vendors to deploy new business technologies and maintain, modify and update our systems, including systems that manage sensitive information. these third parties could fail to establish adequate risk management and information security measures to protect our systems and information. while our computer systems have been, and will continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, including investing in risk management and information security measures to protect our systems. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated cyber risks. despite our best efforts, our businesses may not be fully insulated from cyber-attacks and system disruptions. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our pipelines and distribution and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial and reputational loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. sempra energy maintains cyber liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in scope and subject to exceptions, conditions and coverage limitations and may not cover any or even a substantial portion of the costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised and there is no guarantee that the insurance that we do maintain will continue to be available at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects . risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates, among other matters, the california utilities': conditions of service sales of securities rates of return 38 capital structure rates of depreciation long-term resource procurement the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility operations, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms and performance-based regulation in notes 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investments, as well as settlements, while incorporating a risk-based decision-making framework. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or denying recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards, authorizations for less than full recovery or rejection of their settlements may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of a portion of these incurred costs, which could materially and adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. to the extent that these groups are successful in influencing our california utilities' operations, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. the wildfire legislation may not adequately protect sdg&amp;e from liability from catastrophic wildfires in its service territory and we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. in july 2019, the governor of california signed the wildfire legislation into law, which addresses certain important issues related to catastrophic wildfires in the state of california and their impact on electric ious. investor-owned gas distribution utilities such as socalgas are not covered by this legislation. the issues addressed include wildfire mitigation, cost recovery standards and requirements, a wildfire fund, a cap on liability, and the establishment of a wildfire safety board. the wildfire legislation did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability on a utility (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire. rather, the wildfire legislation established a revised legal standard for the recovery of wildfire costs (revised prudent manager standard) and established the wildfire fund designed to provide liquidity to participating california electric ious to pay iou wildfire-related claims in the event that the 39 governmental agency responsible for determining causation determines the applicable iou's equipment caused the ignition of a wildfire, primary insurance coverage is exceeded and certain other conditions are satisfied. we are unable to predict whether the wildfire legislation will be effectively implemented and its impact on sdg&amp;e's ability to recover certain costs and expenses in cases where sdg&amp;e's equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, and specifically in the context of the application of inverse condemnation. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur, or may not be available in sufficient amounts to meet the primary insurance required by the wildfire legislation of $1 billion. uninsured losses may not be recoverable in customer rates. increases in the cost of insurance may be challenged when we seek cost recovery. california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's equipment, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be a cause of one or more fires, the utility could be held strictly liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase in the number and size of wildfires, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is neither fully insured nor can be recovered in customer rates, such as the cpuc decision denying sdg&amp;e's recovery of costs for the 2007 wildfires, could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates or from the wildfire fund the costs of any uninsured losses. we monitor weather conditions continuously to help ensure the safe operation of our facilities during the periods of elevated wildfire ignition risk. should conditions become extreme, we may de-energize certain of our facilities as a last resort to minimize this safety risk to the public. such public safety power shutoffs could be subject to increased scrutiny by regulators and law makers, and may lead to increased risk of penalties and liability for damages. there can be no assurance that such costs would be recoverable in rates. extreme weather conditions, changing weather patterns and population growth in areas of the state of california in environments with historically higher risk of wildfires could materially affect the california utilities' and sempra energy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. frequent and more severe drought conditions, unseasonably warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators. this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories and/or catastrophic destruction of third-party property for which sdg&amp;e or socalgas may be liable and unable to recover from ratepayers or may have inadequate insurance coverage. the wildfire legislation, signed into law in july 2019, includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain important issues related to catastrophic wildfires in the state of california, including wildfire mitigation, cost recovery standards and requirements, a wildfire fund, a cap on liability, and the establishment of a wildfire safety board. however, in the event of a significant wildfire involving sdg&amp;e equipment, the standards prescribed by the wildfire legislation may not be applied by the state of california consistently or the wildfire fund could be completely exhausted due to fires in other california ious' service territories, by fires in sdg&amp;e's service territory or by a combination thereof, which could impact our ability to timely access capital necessary to address, in whole or in part, inverse condemnation and other liabilities. in addition, the state of california has been subject to housing shortages such that certain local land use policies and forestry management practices have been relaxed in certain cases to allow for the construction and development of residential and commercial projects in high risk fire areas that may not have the infrastructure or contingency plans necessary to address such risk. severe rainstorms and associated high winds in our service territories, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs and interruptions in natural gas and electricity delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. events or conditions caused by climate change, including risk of wildfires, severe weather conditions and flooding caused by rising sea levels, could have a greater impact on the california utilities' operations than the california utilities currently 40 anticipate. if the cpuc fails to adjust the california utilities' rates to reflect the impact of events or conditions caused by climate change or if a major fire is determined to be caused by our equipment, sempra energy's and the california utilities' business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. the california utilities are subject to risks arising from the operation, maintenance and upgrades of their natural gas and electricity infrastructure and information technology systems, which, if they materialize, could adversely affect sempra energy's and the california utilities' financial results. the california utilities own and operate electric transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities, which are, in many cases, interconnected and/or managed by information technology systems. the california utilities undertake substantial capital investment projects to construct, replace, improve and upgrade these facilities and systems, but while these capital investment projects are in process and even once completed, there is a risk of, among other things, potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure and information technology systems, human error in operations or maintenance, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, as discussed above, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. additional risks associated with the ability of the california utilities to safely and reliably operate, maintain, improve and upgrade their facilities and systems, many of which are beyond the california utilities' control, include: challenges associated with meeting customer demand for natural gas and/or electricity that results in customer curtailments, controlled/uncontrolled gas outages, gas surges back into homes, serious personal injury or loss of life; a prolonged widespread electrical black-out that results in damage to the california utilities' equipment or damage to property owned by customers or other third parties; inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to a catastrophic event that could lead to public or employee harm or extended outages; severe weather events such as storms, tornadoes, floods, drought, earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, pandemics, solar events, electromagnetic events or other natural disasters; the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water or soil, including gas leaks from natural gas pipelines or storage facilities; and attacks by third parties, including cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or war. the occurrence of any of these events could affect demand for natural gas or electricity; cause unplanned outages; damage the california utilities' assets and/or operations; damage the assets and/or operations of third parties on which the california utilities rely; damage property owned by customers or others; and cause personal injury or death. as a result, the california utilities could incur costs to purchase replacement power, to repair assets and restore service, and to compensate third parties. any such events could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs, expenses and other liabilities related to the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and mitigating local community environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and emissions mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance or may exceed insurance coverage. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in los angeles county. as described in civil and criminal litigation and regulatory proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, numerous lawsuits, investigations and regulatory proceedings have been initiated in response to the leak, resulting in significant costs. civil and criminal litigation as of february 21, 2020, 393 lawsuits, including approximately 36,000 plaintiffs, are pending against socalgas related to the leak, some of which have also named sempra energy. all these cases, other than a matter brought by the los angeles county district attorney and the federal securities class action, are coordinated before a single court in the la superior court for pretrial management. the court has scheduled an initial trial for june 24, 2020 for a small number of randomly selected individual plaintiffs. for a more detailed description of the civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. these complaints were dismissed, and shareholders filed an amended complaint in february 2020. a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws also was filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers which is on appeal following dismissal by the court. a misdemeanor criminal complaint was filed by the la county district attorney's office, as to which socalgas entered a settlement that was approved by the la superior court but is subject to appeal by certain residents. additional litigation, including by public entities, and criminal complaints may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. the costs of defending against or resolving the civil and criminal lawsuits, and any compensatory, statutory or punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant. if any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations, orders and additional regulation in january 2016, calgem and the cpuc selected blade to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the root cause analysis was released in may 2019 and concluded that socalgas had complied with gas storage regulations in existence at the time of the leak and that the related compliance activities conducted prior to the leak did not find indications of a casing integrity issue, but that there were also measures, though not required by the gas storage regulations at the time, that could have been taken to aid in the early identification of corrosion and that, in the opinion of blade, would have prevented or mitigated the leak. in addition, calgem is investigating the leak. in june 2019, the cpuc opened an oii to consider penalties against socalgas for the leak. the first phase will consider whether socalgas violated public utilities code section 451 or other laws, cpuc orders or decisions, rules or requirements, whether socalgas engaged in unreasonable and/or imprudent practices with respect to its operation and maintenance of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or its related record-keeping practices, whether socalgas cooperated sufficiently with the safety enforcement division (sed) and blade during the pre-formal investigation, and whether any of the mitigation proposed by blade should be implemented to the extent not already done. in november 2019, sed, based largely on the blade report, alleged a total of 330 violations, asserting that socalgas violated california public utilities code section 451 and failed to cooperate in the investigation and to keep proper records. hearings in the first phase of the oii are scheduled to begin in april 2020. the second phase will consider whether socalgas should be sanctioned for the leak and what penalties, if any, should be imposed for any violations proven in the first phase, as well as determine the amounts of various costs incurred by socalgas and other parties in connection with the leak and the ratemaking treatment or other disposition of such costs. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates. in addition, any of these investigations could result in findings of violations of laws, orders, rules or regulations as well as fines, sanctions and other penalties. socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations or by these investigations. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (representing 63% of socalgas' natural gas storage capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. as a result of the leak, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility beginning in october 2015 and, following a comprehensive safety review and authorization by calgem and the cpuc's executive director, resumed limited injection operations in july 2017. i n february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 42 2019, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $769 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together we estimate provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. at december 31, 2019, socalgas' estimate of costs related to the leak of $1,116 million includes $1,086 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. costs not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate could be material. we have received insurance payments for many of our costs, including temporary relocation and associated processing costs, control-of-well expenses, costs of the government-ordered response to the leak, legal costs and lost gas. if any costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as described in civil and criminal litigation above, the actions against us seek compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, sanctions, penalties or other costs. this cost estimate also does not include future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy through december 31, 2019 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. costs not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate could be material. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. the california utilities test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. the cpuc established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. psep-related proceedings before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests are often challenged by intervening parties. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs, including through grc filings. from 2011 through 2019, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested and have or plan to seek recovery for approximately $1.8 billion and $445 million, respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2019, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have received approval for recovery of $1.3 billion and $15 million, respectively. on january 30, 2020 socalgas and sdg&amp;e reached a settlement with certain intervenors in the 2018 reasonableness review proceeding, which would resolve all but one issue regarding the period of recovery. the settlement is subject to cpuc approval. beginning in 2019, the majority of investments in psep projects are being recovered in base rates as approved in the 2019 grc fd. if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 43 the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. under the enforcement program, the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to become in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of charges independent of consumption volume and reforms to reduce nem rate subsidies, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric residential rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places a higher rate burden on customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation (primarily solar installations). under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage (wholesale rates apply only if a customer's annual generation exceeds their annual consumption). under this structure, nem customers do not pay their proportionate share of the cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the unpaid nem costs are subsidized by customers not participating in nem. accordingly, as higher electric-use residential customers switch to nem and self-generate energy, the burden on the remaining customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that provided a framework for rates that we believe are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the framework provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, and directs the utilities to pursue expanded time-of-use rates. the framework will be fully implemented in 2020 and should result in relief for higher-use customers and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020, subject to certain conditions. we believe the establishment of a charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers, including the nem issue discussed above. distributed energy resources and energy efficiency initiatives could generally reduce delivered volumes, increasing the importance of a fixed charge. in addition, the continuing increase of solar installations and other forms of self-generation adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system and could increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could lead to the disallowance of recovery for our costs, including power procurement costs, operating or capital costs, or the imposition of fines and penalties. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate increasing two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources; and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or 44 operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e currently provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. utility customers could also receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city and county of san diego and other municipalities, are considering implementing or are implementing a cca, which could result in sdg&amp;e providing procurement service for less than half of its current customer load as early as 2021. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer procures electricity for this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could then be borne by sdg&amp;e's remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. if adequate mechanisms are not implemented to ensure compliance with state law, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas and natural gas storage has increasingly been the subject of political and public scrutiny, including a desire by some to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source. california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. the cpuc initiated an oir to update gas reliability standards, determine the regulatory changes necessary to improve coordination between natural gas utilities and natural gas-fired electric generators, and implement a long-term planning strategy to manage the state's transition away from natural gas-fueled technologies to meet california's decarbonization goals. the oir will be conducted in three phases. the first phase will address reliability standards. the second phase will address coordination between natural gas utilities and natural gas-fired electric generators. the third phase will implement a long-term planning strategy. comments on the scope of the new oir were due on february 26, 2020. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20% ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include: the potential release of a radioactive material including from a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami that could cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains ndts for providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. 45 interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to ndt funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is awaiting the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to timely access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs incurred in 2017 and subsequent years. until the litigation against the doe by edison and sdg&amp;e seeking recovery of spent fuel management costs is resolved or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs without reimbursement from the ndt. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our interest in oncor certain ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. various ring-fencing measures are in place to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence creates both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and sempra energy and its affiliates and subsidiaries, on the other hand. in accordance with the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments we made in connection with the merger, we and oncor are subject to various restrictions, including, among others: seven members of oncor's 13-person board of directors will be independent directors in relation to sempra energy and any other direct or indirect owners of oncor. with respect to the non-independent directors, two will be designated by sempra energy, two will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, and two will be current or former oncor officers; oncor may not pay any dividends if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts; oncor will not pay dividends if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct; if oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or baa2 for moody's), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from sempra energy, including a requirement that dealings between oncor and sempra energy must be on an arm's-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions and a prohibition on pledging oncor assets or stock for any entity other than oncor; a majority of oncor's independent directors must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or o&amp;m in such budget is more than a 10% increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts of such expenditures in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable; and sempra energy will continue to hold indirectly at least 51% of the ownership interests in oncor holdings and oncor for at least five years following the closing of the merger, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the puct . as a result, we do not control oncor holdings or oncor, and we have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. we have limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor board of directors, which are controlled by independent directors. the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent that they take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of sempra energy may be materially adversely affected. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect us. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, 46 potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects . oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor. similarly, if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may elect to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. sempra energy could incur substantial tax liabilities if efh's 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh is deemed to be taxable. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016, efh distributed all the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 of the irc (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment). in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. in connection with the signing and closing of the merger, efh sought and received a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs and sempra energy and efh received tax opinions from their respective counsel that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling is generally binding on the irs and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh, now sempra texas holdings corp. and a subsidiary of sempra energy. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, sempra energy, through its ownership of sempra texas holdings corp., could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value associated with our indirect investment in oncor and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects of sempra energy and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, sempra texas holdings corp. has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. risks related to our businesses other than the california utilities and our interest in oncor business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng liquefaction, marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements negotiation of satisfactory lng offtake and equity agreements 47 negotiation of supply, natural gas and lng sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements and ppas timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses and other authorizations and maintenance of these authorizations our counterparties' financial or other ability to fulfill their contractual commitments timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays due to adverse weather conditions, work stoppages, equipment unavailability and other events and contractor performance shortfalls our counterparties' financial or other inability to fulfill their contractual commitments failure to obtain or maintain required governmental permits, licenses and other authorizations litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of liquefaction, regasification and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt liquefaction, generation, regasification, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. we have a 50.2% interest in cameron lng jv, which is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. cameron lng jv has a lump-sum, turnkey epc contract with a jv between cb&amp;i, llc (as assignee of cb&amp;i shaw constructors, inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of mcdermott international, inc., and chiyoda international corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of chiyoda corporation. if the epc contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. in january 2020, mcdermott international, inc. filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. mcdermott international, inc. has stated that it expects all of its projects, including the three-train liquefaction project at cameron lng jv, to continue on an uninterrupted basis. however, we cannot be certain the cameron lng jv project will not be interrupted. if the contractor defaults under the epc contract due to the bankruptcy of mcdermott international, inc. or for any other reason, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. the inability to complete the project in a timely manner or within our current expectations, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. if the estimated construction, financing and other project costs for the facility substantially exceed our contingency associated with the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to make material additional, unexpected cash contributions. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance is provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $4.0 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. cameron lng jv's loan facility agreements and related finance documents contain events of default customary for such financings, including a failure to achieve financial completion of the project by a financial completion deadline date of september 30, 2021 (with up to an additional 365 days extension beyond such date permitted in cases of force majeure). a delay in construction that results in a failure to achieve financial completion of the project by this financial completion deadline date would therefore result in an event of default under 48 cameron lng jv's financing and a potential demand on sempra energy's guarantees. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to cameron lng jv's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $4.0 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are evaluating several other lng export development opportunities. sempra lng is in discussions with the co-owners of cameron lng jv regarding the potential expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains at the cameron lng liquefaction facility, is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project near port arthur, texas, and, through a jv agreement with ienova, is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca lng regasification facility in baja california, mexico to be developed in two phases (a mid-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 1 and a large-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 2). each of these contemplated projects face numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can reach a final investment decision and proceed with construction. further, a shift in the supply of natural gas could depress lng prices and the cost advantages of exporting lng from the u.s. in addition, global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those developing projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world more feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). in connection with these lng export development opportunities, which we discuss further in item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity sempra lng, we have entered into or may enter into heads of agreements, mous and/or similar agreements, all of which are or will be nonbinding and do not or will not obligate any of the parties to execute any agreements or participate in any such opportunities. any decisions by sempra energy or our potential counterparties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the potential development (or expansion) of our liquefaction projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable additional partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including equity acquisition and governance agreements, natural gas supply and transportation agreements, lng sale and purchase agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca lng regasification facility and eca lng jv proposed liquefaction project in mexico are subject to on-going land and permit disputes that could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that a facility could be constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers for eca lng jv phase 2, difficult. finally, the eca lng regasification facility currently has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100% of the regasification facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue eca lng jv phase 2 dependent in part on whether the investment in a large-scale liquefaction project would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. 49 domestic and international hydraulic fracturing operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties that could increase the costs of doing business, impose additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect production of lng and reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. hydraulic fracturing operations in the u.s. and outside the u.s. face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to their operations. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state, local or international laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three-train cameron lng facility currently under construction. our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time for lng facilities or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities can result from multiple factors, such as adverse weather conditions, commodity production levels, and energy and environmental regulations and legislation. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. sempra mexico and sempra lng generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified development and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s. and mexico. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to revise or replace international trade agreements, such as nafta. in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. the u.s. and mexico approved the usmca in january 2020 and june 2019, respectively, but canada has yet to provide its approval. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our 50 businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng regasification facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng regasification facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction by cameron lng, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. certain past assertions made by the cfe and mexican government, coupled with past arbitration requests and other statements and actions by the cfe, raise serious concerns over whether the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts will be honored or disputed in arbitration. the failure by the cfe or other customers to honor the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts and the inability to enter into gas pipeline contracts in the future could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. in addition, we may develop and/or own some projects with other equity owners and, therefore, we may not control all material decisions with respect to those projects, as is the case with the cameron lng jv project. to the extent that there is disagreement amongst the project equity owners with respect to certain decisions affecting such a project, the development, construction or 51 operation of such project may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. such a circumstance could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, result of operations and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng regasification facility and eca lng jv proposed liquefaction project in mexico are located, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. if we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which these current and proposed facilities are located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related facilities, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such facilities. in addition, our ability to construct an lng liquefaction export facility may be hindered or halted by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver natural gas and electricity. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the natural gas and electricity we sell to wholesale markets or that we use for our liquefaction facilities; supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities; and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra mexico's subsidiaries, as well as our south american businesses that are held for sale, rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation assets, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation assets, electricity generation facilities, lng facilities and ethane and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure and operations, which are held for sale. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations; actions by local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses; adverse changes in market conditions, trade restrictions, limitations on ownership in foreign countries and inadequate enforcement of regulations; foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law; permitting and regulatory compliance; adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico; energy policy reform that may result in adverse changes to and/or difficulty in enforcing existing contracts, as we discuss below; expropriation or theft of assets; adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate; social unrest; and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws . in addition, the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and certain governmental agencies, including the cfe 52 could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on ienova's operations in particular. for example, the cfe and the mexican government took certain actions in 2019 that raised serious concerns over whether the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts would be honored or disputed in arbitration. ienova and other affected natural gas pipeline developers joined the cfe and the president of mexico's representatives in negotiations and were able to resolve the dispute, but we cannot predict whether similar disputes may arise and/or whether such disputes will be resolved on favorable terms to us, if at all. we also cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. such circumstances, may materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects in mexico, which could have a material adverse effect on sempra's consolidated financial statements. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20% ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. as a result of ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments, we account for our indirect, 100% ownership interest in oncor holdings, which, at december 31, 2019, owns an 80.25% interest in oncor, as an equity method investment. sempra lng accounts for its 50.2% interest in cameron lng jv under the equity method. sempra mexico has a 40% interest in a jv with a subsidiary of tc energy to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50% interest in a renewables wind project in baja california, and a 50% interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. sempra energy has an equity method investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership, which is in the process of being dissolved and for which sempra energy is subject to certain indemnities as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. any adverse resolution of matters associated with our ownership interest in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra lng provided guarantees related to cameron lng jv's financing agreements, and sempra mexico has provided loans to jvs in which they have investments. we discuss the guarantees in note 6 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 5, 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2019, sempra energy had approximately $1,602 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 2.44% of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. md&amp;a critical 53 accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 94 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the current u.s. administration has called for substantial changes to trade agreements. for example, in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. the u.s. and mexico approved the usmca in january 2020 and june 2019, respectively, but canada has yet to provide its approval. the u.s. administration has also implemented changes to u.s. immigration policy and other policies that could impact trade, including increasing tariffs. such actions could result in changes in the mexican, u.s. and other markets that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. in addition, if the u.s. withdraws from nafta, the mexican government could implement retaliatory actions, such as the imposition of restrictions or import fees on mexican imports of natural gas from the u.s. or imports and exports of electricity to and from the u.s. any of these actions by either or both governments could adversely affect imports and exports between mexico and the u.s. and negatively impact the u.s. and mexican economies and the companies with whom we conduct business in mexico, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our plan to divest certain of our assets and businesses as part of our capital rotation plan. in 2019, we completed the divestiture of all our u.s. solar and wind assets and certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. additionally, we entered into agreements to sell our south american businesses, which we expect to close in the first half of 2020, subject to a number of closing conditions. there can be no assurance that the pending sales will be completed. if we do not successfully manage our current capital rotation plan, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. the tcja may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the value of investments in our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. the tcja significantly changed the irc, including taxation of u.s. corporations by, among other things, reducing the u.s. corporate income tax rate, altering the expensing of capital expenditures, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, assessing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed earnings of u.s.-owned foreign entities at the time of enactment and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. while the u.s department of the treasury has issued final regulations for various sections of the irc, certain aspects of the legislation are still subject to interpretation and will require implementing regulations by the u.s. department of the treasury, as well as state tax authorities, which could lessen or increase adverse impacts. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of this legislation may be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, the ferc or state public utility commissions may respond to the tcja, we expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, will be negatively impacted as a result of an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our domestic utility subsidiaries due to the decrease in the u.s. statutory corporate income tax rate. certain provisions of the tcja, such as 100% expensing of certain capital expenditures and impacts on utilization of our nols, may influence how we fund capital expenditures, the timing of capital expenditures and possible redeployment of capital through sales or monetization of assets, the timing of repatriation of foreign earnings and the use of equity financing to reduce our future use of debt, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will reduce any potential adverse impact from these provisions of the tcja. in addition, although the deductibility of our interest cost is not limited for the current year, future earnings may be affected based on our method of allocation across our businesses. it is also uncertain whether additional avenues will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of this legislation. we believe that these strategies, to the extent available and if successfully applied, could lessen any such negative impacts on us, although there can be no assurance in this regard. we discuss the effects of the tcja further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 7. md&amp;a results of operations. our mandatory convertible preferred stock, as well as any additional equity securities we may sell to raise funds, may dilute the economic and voting interests of our common shareholders and may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our series a preferred stock, and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our series b preferred stock, which are scheduled to convert into common stock on january 15, 2021 and july 15, 2021, respectively. we may seek to reduce our indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock and, possibly, 32 other equity securities, which, together with the conversion of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock, may materially dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock and materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments or issue additional equity that may materially dilute the voting rights and economic interest of holders of our common stock. our substantial debt service obligations due to our aggregate indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects by, among other things: making it more difficult and/or costly for us to service our debt or pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic or industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in our business and the industry sectors in which we operate; requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, including interest, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes, which could hinder our prospects for growth and the market price of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, among other things; requiring that additional materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which covenants might limit additional borrowings; and imposing specific restrictions on uses of our assets, as well as prohibiting or limiting our ability to create liens, pay dividends, receive distributions from our subsidiaries, redeem or repurchase our stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets and limit our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program. we are committed to maintaining our credit ratings at investment grade. to maintain these credit ratings, we may reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness with the proceeds from the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities. additional equity issuances may dilute the voting rights and economic interests of holders of our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities with terms that we consider acceptable or at all, or that we will be able to reduce the amount of our outstanding indebtedness, should we elect to do so, to a level that allows us to maintain our investment grade credit ratings, which may have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. certain credit rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings or place those ratings on negative outlook. credit rating agencies routinely evaluate sempra energy and the california utilities, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the increased risk of wildfires in california, perceived supportiveness of the regulatory environment affecting utility operations, including delays and difficulties in obtaining recovery, or the denial of recovery, for wildfire-related costs, ability to generate cash flows, level of indebtedness, overall financial strength, including credit metrics, diversification beyond the regulated utility business (in the case of sempra energy), and the status of certain capital projects, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as the state of the economy and our industry generally. downgrades and factors causing downgrades of one or both of the california utilities can have a material impact on sempra energy's credit ratings. downgrades, as well as the factors causing such downgrades, of sempra energy's credit ratings could imply diminished credit support available to our subsidiaries. accordingly, downgrades of sempra energy's credit ratings can also have a material impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, including the california utilities. while the current moody's, s&amp;p and fitch (collectively, the rating agencies) issuer credit ratings for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas are investment grade, there is no assurance that these credit ratings will not be downgraded. for sempra energy, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: delays at the cameron lng project and the impact on financial credit metrics; construction of lng liquefaction projects and the impact on business mix and financial credit metrics over time; sempra energy's failure to meet certain financial credit metrics; the cpuc does not effectively implement the more supportive prudency standard associated with the wildfire legislation; or a ratings downgrade at sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas. for sdg&amp;e, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: the cpuc does not effectively implement the more supportive prudency standard associated with the wildfire legislation; 33 a consistent weakening of sdg&amp;e's financial metrics; catastrophic wildfires caused by california electric ious that participate in the wildfire fund, which could exhaust the fund considerably earlier than expected; or a ratings downgrade at sempra energy. for socalgas, the rating agencies have noted that the following events, among other things, could lead to negative ratings actions: socalgas' credit metrics do not improve materially after implementation of the grc and cost of capital decisions finalized in 2019; socalgas experiences increased business risk, weakening its standalone business risk profile; deterioration of, or uncertainty in, the political or regulatory environment for local natural gas distribution companies operating in california; or a ratings downgrade at sempra energy. a downgrade of sempra energy's or either of its california utilities' credit ratings may materially and adversely affect the market prices of sempra energy's equity and debt securities, the interest rates at which borrowings are made and debt securities and commercial paper are issued, and the various fees on credit facilities. this could make it significantly more costly for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas and sempra energy's other subsidiaries to borrow money, to issue debt securities and to raise certain other types of capital and/or complete additional financings. such negative credit rating actions, as well as the reasons for such actions could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and the market price of, and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on, our debt securities. dividend requirements associated with our mandatory convertible preferred stock subject us to certain risks. in january 2018, we issued 17,250,000 shares of our series a preferred stock, and in july 2018, we issued 5,750,000 shares of our series b preferred stock. any future payments of cash dividends, and the amount of any cash dividends we pay, on our series a preferred stock and our series b preferred stock will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, capital requirements and results of operations, and the ability of our subsidiaries and equity method investees to distribute cash to us, as well as other factors that our board of directors may consider relevant. any failure to pay scheduled dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock when due would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, our common stock and our debt securities and would prohibit us, under the terms of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, from paying cash dividends on or repurchasing shares of our common stock (subject to limited exceptions) until such time as we have paid all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. the terms of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock generally provide that if dividends on any shares of the mandatory convertible preferred stock have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more dividend periods, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, the holders of shares of mandatory convertible preferred stock, voting together as a single class, will be entitled to elect a total of two additional members of our board of directors, subject to certain terms and limitations described in the certificate of determination applicable to the mandatory convertible preferred stock. our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. while we strive to maintain constructive, ongoing communications with all our shareholders, and welcome their views and opinions with the goal of enhancing value for all our shareholders, activist shareholders may, from time to time, engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals, or otherwise attempt to effect changes and assert influence on our board of directors and management. responding to proposals by activist shareholders would require us to incur significant legal and advisory fees, proxy solicitation expenses (in the case of a proxy contest) and administrative and associated costs and require significant time and attention by our board of directors and management, diverting their attention from the pursuit of our business strategy. any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control, our ability to execute on our strategy, or changes to the composition of our board of directors or senior management team arising from proposals by activist shareholders or a proxy contest could lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business or instability that may be exploited by our competitors and/or other activist shareholders, result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and make it more difficult to pursue our strategic initiatives or attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business and operating results. 34 actions such as those described above could cause significant fluctuations in the trading prices of our common stock and our preferred stock, based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. risks related to all sempra energy businesses severe weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, mudslides, accidents, equipment failures, explosions or acts of terrorism. because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. the facilities and infrastructure that we own or in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to: natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compressor facilities electric transmission and distribution power generation plants, including renewable energy and natural gas-fired generation marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng, and lpg facilities, terminals and storage nuclear power facilities, nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities (through sdg&amp;e's 20% minority interest in songs, which is currently being decommissioned) such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, prolonged power outages, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. such incidents that do not directly affect our facilities may impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide natural gas and electricity to our customers. other global incidents could have similar effects to the extent they reach and impact the territories in which we operate, the customers we serve or the employees who operate our businesses. for example, the coronavirus outbreak currently affecting china and elsewhere has resulted in travel restrictions and impacts on the global economy that could affect our operations in a manner that is not presently possible to predict. any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas, natural gas odorant, propane or ethane leaks; releases of other ghg; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. in some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, such as in cases where the doctrine of inverse condemnation applies. we discuss how the application of this doctrine in california imposes strict liability on a utility whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire (meaning the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) below under risks related to the california utilities the wildfire legislation may not adequately protect sdg&amp;e from liability from catastrophic wildfires in its service territory. insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become prohibitively expensive, may be disputed by the insurers, or may become unavailable for certain of these risks or at sufficient levels, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects, as well as the trading prices of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and tax requirements and may be materially adversely affected by these regulations or requirements or changes thereto. the electric power and natural gas industries are subject to complex government regulations that from time to time undergo significant changes on the federal, state and local levels. the failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to significant fines and penalties and result in the temporary or permanent shutdown of certain facilities and operations. in addition, changes to these regulations or how these regulations are interpreted may adversely affect how we conduct our business and may subject us to higher compliance costs. 35 our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs. any new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances, and changes in tax policies could materially adversely impact our business. changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the california utilities and other sempra energy businesses. these rules are commonly referred to as affiliate rules, which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. these businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional cpuc or ferc rules that further restrict our ability to sell natural gas or electricity to, or to trade with, the california utilities and with each other. affiliate rules also restrict these businesses from entering into any such transactions with the california utilities. any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the lng facilities, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, agreements and other approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, and any failure to obtain or maintain them could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, construction, expansion, ownership, maintenance and/or operation of electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, lng, and lpg facilities, terminals and storage; and other projects require numerous permits, licenses, rights-of-way, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including approvals and renewals of rights-of-way over indigenous tribal land. these permits, licenses, rights-of-way, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses or as a result of litigation. for example, socalgas' franchise agreements with the city of los angeles and los angeles county expire in december 2020 and june 2023, respectively. sdg&amp;e's franchise agreement with the city of san diego is due to expire in january 2021. successfully maintaining or renewing any or all of these approvals could result in higher costs. furthermore, our permits may require compliance by our underlying customers. failure by our customers to comply with permit requirements could result in our permits being modified, suspended or rescinded. in the event one or more of these approvals were to expire or otherwise terminate, we may be required to remove the associated assets from service, construct new assets intended to bypass the impacted area, or both, and our ability to recover higher costs associated with these events cannot be assured. successfully coordinating and completing expansion and construction projects requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties, and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. we may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. if there is a delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, if we fail to obtain or maintain required approvals or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be precluded from constructing or operating facilities, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect our businesses financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our operations and prospects to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and/or results of operations. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and ghg emissions. we are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. our regulated utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. in addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our projects and properties; in each case regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown, which exposes us to risks arising from 36 contamination at our former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in our operations. in the case of our california and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. our facilities, including those in our jvs, are subject to laws and regulations that have been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to power generation facilities. failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations. increasing international, national, regional and state-level environmental concerns as well as related new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs and the scope and economics of proposed expansions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as potential state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of ghg emissions, may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. for example, sb 100 requires each california utility, including sdg&amp;e, to procure 50% of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2026, and 60% by 2030. sb 100 also creates the policy of meeting all the state of california's retail electricity supply with a mix of rps-eligible and zero-carbon resources by 2045, for a total of 100% clean energy. the law also includes stipulations that this policy not increase carbon emissions elsewhere in the western grid and not allow resource shuffling, and requires that the cpuc, cec, carb and other state agencies incorporate this into all relevant planning. our california utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed ghg emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' cash flows. sdg&amp;e may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met. in addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us. sempra energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings, including in connection with the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility natural gas leak. we have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. we discuss pending proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. in addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, by insurance or in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. in addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned. to reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and lng, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. as part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. we do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the extent of the coverage to these exposures varies over time. to the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. certain of the contracts we may use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. in certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged. risk management procedures may not prevent or mitigate losses. although we have in place risk management and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not prevent material losses. risk management procedures may not always be followed as intended by our businesses or may not work as planned. in addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. if prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. as a result of 37 these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent or mitigate losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition. the operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees. several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), we face evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, smart grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. existing business technologies and the deployment of new business technologies represent a large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. additionally, we often rely on third party vendors to deploy new business technologies and maintain, modify and update our systems, including systems that manage sensitive information. these third parties could fail to establish adequate risk management and information security measures to protect our systems and information. while our computer systems have been, and will continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not detected a material breach of cybersecurity. addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across sempra energy's businesses, including investing in risk management and information security measures to protect our systems. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated cyber risks. despite our best efforts, our businesses may not be fully insulated from cyber-attacks and system disruptions. an attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our pipelines and distribution and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial and reputational loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. in the ordinary course of business, sempra energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. the theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation. sempra energy maintains cyber liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in scope and subject to exceptions, conditions and coverage limitations and may not cover any or even a substantial portion of the costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised and there is no guarantee that the insurance that we do maintain will continue to be available at rates that we believe are commercially reasonable. further, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating, financial and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, negatively impact our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements or comply with ongoing disclosure obligations or other regulatory requirements, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents, any of which could lead to sanctions or negatively affect the general perception of our business in the financial markets and which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects . risks related to the california utilities the california utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us. the cpuc regulates the california utilities' rates, except sdg&amp;e's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the ferc. the cpuc also regulates, among other matters, the california utilities': conditions of service sales of securities rates of return 38 capital structure rates of depreciation long-term resource procurement the cpuc conducts various reviews and audits of utility operations, safety standards and practices, compliance with cpuc regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. these reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. socalgas and sdg&amp;e may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for sdg&amp;e, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. we discuss various cpuc proceedings relating to the california utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms and performance-based regulation in notes 4, 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the cpuc periodically approves the california utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investments, as well as settlements, while incorporating a risk-based decision-making framework. delays by the cpuc on decisions authorizing recovery or denying recovery, after-the-fact reasonableness reviews with unclear standards, authorizations for less than full recovery or rejection of their settlements may adversely affect the working capital, cash flows and financial condition of each of the california utilities. if the california utilities receive an adverse cpuc decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the cpuc, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. socalgas and sdg&amp;e have significantly invested and continue to invest in major programs, such as psep, under an approved cpuc framework. however, the total investment to date is substantially subject to cpuc reasonableness review. although we believe these costs have been prudently incurred, the standards applied by the cpuc could result in the disallowance of a portion of these incurred costs, which could materially and adversely affect sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in california, there are laws that establish rules governing, among other subjects, communications between cpuc officials, cpuc staff and regulated utilities. rules and processes around ex parte communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. in addition, the cpuc or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities and cpuc officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration. the ferc regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving sdg&amp;e. the california utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the cpuc, the ferc or other regulatory bodies. in addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. new, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the california utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses. our california utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as turn, utility consumers' action network, sierra club and other stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups. to the extent that these groups are successful in influencing our california utilities' operations, this could have a material adverse effect on the california utilities' businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. the wildfire legislation may not adequately protect sdg&amp;e from liability from catastrophic wildfires in its service territory and we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. in july 2019, the governor of california signed the wildfire legislation into law, which addresses certain important issues related to catastrophic wildfires in the state of california and their impact on electric ious. investor-owned gas distribution utilities such as socalgas are not covered by this legislation. the issues addressed include wildfire mitigation, cost recovery standards and requirements, a wildfire fund, a cap on liability, and the establishment of a wildfire safety board. the wildfire legislation did not change the doctrine of inverse condemnation, which imposes strict liability on a utility (meaning that the utility may be found liable regardless of fault) whose equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire. rather, the wildfire legislation established a revised legal standard for the recovery of wildfire costs (revised prudent manager standard) and established the wildfire fund designed to provide liquidity to participating california electric ious to pay iou wildfire-related claims in the event that the 39 governmental agency responsible for determining causation determines the applicable iou's equipment caused the ignition of a wildfire, primary insurance coverage is exceeded and certain other conditions are satisfied. we are unable to predict whether the wildfire legislation will be effectively implemented and its impact on sdg&amp;e's ability to recover certain costs and expenses in cases where sdg&amp;e's equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, and specifically in the context of the application of inverse condemnation. we have experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from the california utilities' operations, particularly sdg&amp;e's operations. in addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient to cover all losses that we may incur, or may not be available in sufficient amounts to meet the primary insurance required by the wildfire legislation of $1 billion. uninsured losses may not be recoverable in customer rates. increases in the cost of insurance may be challenged when we seek cost recovery. california courts have invoked the doctrine of inverse condemnation for wildfire damages, whereby if a utility company's equipment, such as its electric distribution and transmission lines, are determined to be a cause of one or more fires, the utility could be held strictly liable for damages, as well as attorneys' fees, without having been found negligent. as a result of the strict liability standard applied to wildfires, recent losses recorded by insurance companies, and the risk of an increase in the number and size of wildfires, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not be available or may be available only at rates that are prohibitively expensive. in addition, even if insurance for wildfire liabilities is available, it may not be available in such amounts as are necessary to cover potential losses. a loss which is neither fully insured nor can be recovered in customer rates, such as the cpuc decision denying sdg&amp;e's recovery of costs for the 2007 wildfires, could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. we are unable to predict whether we would be allowed to recover in rates or from the wildfire fund the costs of any uninsured losses. we monitor weather conditions continuously to help ensure the safe operation of our facilities during the periods of elevated wildfire ignition risk. should conditions become extreme, we may de-energize certain of our facilities as a last resort to minimize this safety risk to the public. such public safety power shutoffs could be subject to increased scrutiny by regulators and law makers, and may lead to increased risk of penalties and liability for damages. there can be no assurance that such costs would be recoverable in rates. extreme weather conditions, changing weather patterns and population growth in areas of the state of california in environments with historically higher risk of wildfires could materially affect the california utilities' and sempra energy's business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. frequent and more severe drought conditions, unseasonably warm temperatures, very low humidity and stronger winds have increased the degree and prevalence of wildfires in california including in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy and reduce the availability of hydroelectric generators. this could result in temporary power shortages in sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' service territories and/or catastrophic destruction of third-party property for which sdg&amp;e or socalgas may be liable and unable to recover from ratepayers or may have inadequate insurance coverage. the wildfire legislation, signed into law in july 2019, includes a number of measures primarily intended to address certain important issues related to catastrophic wildfires in the state of california, including wildfire mitigation, cost recovery standards and requirements, a wildfire fund, a cap on liability, and the establishment of a wildfire safety board. however, in the event of a significant wildfire involving sdg&amp;e equipment, the standards prescribed by the wildfire legislation may not be applied by the state of california consistently or the wildfire fund could be completely exhausted due to fires in other california ious' service territories, by fires in sdg&amp;e's service territory or by a combination thereof, which could impact our ability to timely access capital necessary to address, in whole or in part, inverse condemnation and other liabilities. in addition, the state of california has been subject to housing shortages such that certain local land use policies and forestry management practices have been relaxed in certain cases to allow for the construction and development of residential and commercial projects in high risk fire areas that may not have the infrastructure or contingency plans necessary to address such risk. severe rainstorms and associated high winds in our service territories, as well as flooding and mudslides where vegetation has been destroyed as result of human modification or wildfires, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs and interruptions in natural gas and electricity delivery services. as a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the california utilities encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. events or conditions caused by climate change, including risk of wildfires, severe weather conditions and flooding caused by rising sea levels, could have a greater impact on the california utilities' operations than the california utilities currently 40 anticipate. if the cpuc fails to adjust the california utilities' rates to reflect the impact of events or conditions caused by climate change or if a major fire is determined to be caused by our equipment, sempra energy's and the california utilities' business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially affected. the california utilities are subject to risks arising from the operation, maintenance and upgrades of their natural gas and electricity infrastructure and information technology systems, which, if they materialize, could adversely affect sempra energy's and the california utilities' financial results. the california utilities own and operate electric transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities, which are, in many cases, interconnected and/or managed by information technology systems. the california utilities undertake substantial capital investment projects to construct, replace, improve and upgrade these facilities and systems, but while these capital investment projects are in process and even once completed, there is a risk of, among other things, potential breakdown or failure of equipment or processes due to aging infrastructure and information technology systems, human error in operations or maintenance, shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor, operational restrictions resulting from environmental requirements and governmental interventions, and performance below expected levels. in addition, as discussed above, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the systems of such third parties. additional risks associated with the ability of the california utilities to safely and reliably operate, maintain, improve and upgrade their facilities and systems, many of which are beyond the california utilities' control, include: challenges associated with meeting customer demand for natural gas and/or electricity that results in customer curtailments, controlled/uncontrolled gas outages, gas surges back into homes, serious personal injury or loss of life; a prolonged widespread electrical black-out that results in damage to the california utilities' equipment or damage to property owned by customers or other third parties; inadequate emergency preparedness plans and the failure to respond effectively to a catastrophic event that could lead to public or employee harm or extended outages; severe weather events such as storms, tornadoes, floods, drought, earthquakes, tsunamis, fires, pandemics, solar events, electromagnetic events or other natural disasters; the release of hazardous or toxic substances into the air, water or soil, including gas leaks from natural gas pipelines or storage facilities; and attacks by third parties, including cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, vandalism or war. the occurrence of any of these events could affect demand for natural gas or electricity; cause unplanned outages; damage the california utilities' assets and/or operations; damage the assets and/or operations of third parties on which the california utilities rely; damage property owned by customers or others; and cause personal injury or death. as a result, the california utilities could incur costs to purchase replacement power, to repair assets and restore service, and to compensate third parties. any such events could materially adversely affect sempra energy's and one or both of the california utilities' financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. socalgas has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs, expenses and other liabilities related to the natural gas leak at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility and mitigating local community environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and socalgas also may incur significant liabilities for damages, restitution, fines, penalties and other costs, and emissions mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance or may exceed insurance coverage. in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility in los angeles county. as described in civil and criminal litigation and regulatory proceedings in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, numerous lawsuits, investigations and regulatory proceedings have been initiated in response to the leak, resulting in significant costs. civil and criminal litigation as of february 21, 2020, 393 lawsuits, including approximately 36,000 plaintiffs, are pending against socalgas related to the leak, some of which have also named sempra energy. all these cases, other than a matter brought by the los angeles county district attorney and the federal securities class action, are coordinated before a single court in the la superior court for pretrial management. the court has scheduled an initial trial for june 24, 2020 for a small number of randomly selected individual plaintiffs. for a more detailed description of the civil and criminal lawsuits brought against us, see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 five shareholder derivative actions alleging breach of fiduciary duties have been filed against certain officers and directors of sempra energy and/or socalgas, four of which were joined in a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint in august 2017. these complaints were dismissed, and shareholders filed an amended complaint in february 2020. a federal securities class action alleging violation of the federal securities laws also was filed against sempra energy and certain of its officers which is on appeal following dismissal by the court. a misdemeanor criminal complaint was filed by the la county district attorney's office, as to which socalgas entered a settlement that was approved by the la superior court but is subject to appeal by certain residents. additional litigation, including by public entities, and criminal complaints may be filed against us in the future related to the leak or our responses thereto. the costs of defending against or resolving the civil and criminal lawsuits, and any compensatory, statutory or punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, if awarded or imposed, as well as the costs of mitigating the actual natural gas released, could be significant. if any of these costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. governmental investigations, orders and additional regulation in january 2016, calgem and the cpuc selected blade to conduct, under their supervision, an independent analysis of the technical root cause of the leak, to be funded by socalgas. the root cause analysis was released in may 2019 and concluded that socalgas had complied with gas storage regulations in existence at the time of the leak and that the related compliance activities conducted prior to the leak did not find indications of a casing integrity issue, but that there were also measures, though not required by the gas storage regulations at the time, that could have been taken to aid in the early identification of corrosion and that, in the opinion of blade, would have prevented or mitigated the leak. in addition, calgem is investigating the leak. in june 2019, the cpuc opened an oii to consider penalties against socalgas for the leak. the first phase will consider whether socalgas violated public utilities code section 451 or other laws, cpuc orders or decisions, rules or requirements, whether socalgas engaged in unreasonable and/or imprudent practices with respect to its operation and maintenance of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility or its related record-keeping practices, whether socalgas cooperated sufficiently with the safety enforcement division (sed) and blade during the pre-formal investigation, and whether any of the mitigation proposed by blade should be implemented to the extent not already done. in november 2019, sed, based largely on the blade report, alleged a total of 330 violations, asserting that socalgas violated california public utilities code section 451 and failed to cooperate in the investigation and to keep proper records. hearings in the first phase of the oii are scheduled to begin in april 2020. the second phase will consider whether socalgas should be sanctioned for the leak and what penalties, if any, should be imposed for any violations proven in the first phase, as well as determine the amounts of various costs incurred by socalgas and other parties in connection with the leak and the ratemaking treatment or other disposition of such costs. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas as a result of new laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident or our responses thereto could be significant and may not be recoverable through insurance or in customer rates. in addition, any of these investigations could result in findings of violations of laws, orders, rules or regulations as well as fines, sanctions and other penalties. socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any such new laws, orders, rules and regulations or by these investigations. natural gas storage operations and reliability natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, with a storage capacity of 86 bcf (representing 63% of socalgas' natural gas storage capacity), is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. as a result of the leak, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility beginning in october 2015 and, following a comprehensive safety review and authorization by calgem and the cpuc's executive director, resumed limited injection operations in july 2017. i n february 2017, the cpuc opened a proceeding pursuant to sb 380 to determine the feasibility of minimizing or eliminating the use of the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility while still maintaining energy and electric reliability for the region. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 42 2019, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $769 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. insurance and estimated costs excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together we estimate provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. at december 31, 2019, socalgas' estimate of costs related to the leak of $1,116 million includes $1,086 million of costs recovered or probable of recovery from insurance. this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. costs not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate could be material. we have received insurance payments for many of our costs, including temporary relocation and associated processing costs, control-of-well expenses, costs of the government-ordered response to the leak, legal costs and lost gas. if any costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as described in civil and criminal litigation above, the actions against us seek compensatory, statutory and punitive damages, restitution, and civil, administrative and criminal fines, penalties and other costs, which except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, are not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the amount of damages, restitution or civil, administrative or criminal fines, sanctions, penalties or other costs. this cost estimate also does not include future legal costs to defend litigation, and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. furthermore, the cost estimate does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy through december 31, 2019 associated with defending shareholder derivative lawsuits. costs not included in the $1,116 million cost estimate could be material. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for these costs under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful in obtaining coverage or these costs exceed the amount of our coverage, such costs could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional information we discuss aliso canyon natural gas storage facility matters further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates. the california utilities test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines located in populated areas that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's psep. the cpuc established criteria to determine the amounts related to psep that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. in the future, certain psep costs may be subject to recovery as determined by separate regulatory filings with the cpuc, including grc filings. psep-related proceedings before the cpuc regarding the california utilities' reasonableness review and cost recovery requests are often challenged by intervening parties. in the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly challenge the california utilities' petitions for recovery and recommend disallowances in whole or in part with respect to applications to recover psep costs, including through grc filings. from 2011 through 2019, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have invested and have or plan to seek recovery for approximately $1.8 billion and $445 million, respectively, in psep, with substantial additional expenditures planned. as of december 31, 2019, socalgas and sdg&amp;e have received approval for recovery of $1.3 billion and $15 million, respectively. on january 30, 2020 socalgas and sdg&amp;e reached a settlement with certain intervenors in the 2018 reasonableness review proceeding, which would resolve all but one issue regarding the period of recovery. the settlement is subject to cpuc approval. beginning in 2019, the majority of investments in psep projects are being recovered in base rates as approved in the 2019 grc fd. if the cpuc denies or significantly delays rate recovery for psep and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by socalgas and sdg&amp;e, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 43 the california utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either sdg&amp;e or socalgas to be out of compliance. sb 291 requires the cpuc to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, and delegates citation authority to cpuc staff personnel under the direction of the cpuc executive director. under the enforcement program, the maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. cpuc staff has authority to issue citations up to an administrative limit of $8 million per citation under either program and such citations may be appealed to the cpuc. although citations issued under these enforcement programs do include an administrative limit, penalties issued by the cpuc can exceed this limit, having exceeded $1.5 billion in one instance for an unrelated third party. if the cpuc or its staff determine that either of sdg&amp;e's or socalgas' operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective or mitigation actions required to become in conformance, if not sufficiently funded in customer rates, and any penalties imposed, could materially adversely affect that company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the failure by the cpuc to continue reforms of sdg&amp;e's rate structure, including the implementation of charges independent of consumption volume and reforms to reduce nem rate subsidies, could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the current electric residential rate structure in california is primarily based on consumption volume, which places a higher rate burden on customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. the nem program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation (primarily solar installations). under nem, qualifying customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed to the utility's power grid. this occurs during times when the customer's generation exceeds their own energy usage (wholesale rates apply only if a customer's annual generation exceeds their annual consumption). under this structure, nem customers do not pay their proportionate share of the cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive electricity from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. the unpaid nem costs are subsidized by customers not participating in nem. accordingly, as higher electric-use residential customers switch to nem and self-generate energy, the burden on the remaining customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. in july 2015, the cpuc adopted a decision that provided a framework for rates that we believe are more transparent, fair and sustainable. the framework provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, and directs the utilities to pursue expanded time-of-use rates. the framework will be fully implemented in 2020 and should result in relief for higher-use customers and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. the decision also establishes a process for utilities to seek implementation of a fixed charge for residential customers in 2020, subject to certain conditions. we believe the establishment of a charge independent of consumption volume for residential customers may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers, including the nem issue discussed above. distributed energy resources and energy efficiency initiatives could generally reduce delivered volumes, increasing the importance of a fixed charge. in addition, the continuing increase of solar installations and other forms of self-generation adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system and could increase fixed costs. if the cpuc fails to continue to reform sdg&amp;e's rate structure to maintain reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could lead to the disallowance of recovery for our costs, including power procurement costs, operating or capital costs, or the imposition of fines and penalties. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. the electricity industry is undergoing significant change, including increased deployment of distributed energy resources, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments. electric utilities in california are experiencing increasing deployment of distributed energy resources, such as solar, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. this growth will eventually require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate increasing two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect distributed energy resources. the cpuc is conducting proceedings to: evaluate various demonstration projects and pilots; implement changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of distributed energy resources; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by distributed energy resources; and if feasible, what, if any, compensation would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. these proceedings may result in new regulations, policies and/or 44 operational changes that could materially adversely affect sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. sdg&amp;e provides bundled electric procurement service through various resources that are typically procured on a long-term basis. while sdg&amp;e currently provides such procurement service for most of its customer load, customers do have the ability to receive procurement service from a load serving entity other than sdg&amp;e, through programs such as da and cca. da is currently limited by a cap based on gigawatt hours. utility customers could also receive procurement through cca, if the customer's local jurisdiction (city) offers such a program. several local political jurisdictions, including the city and county of san diego and other municipalities, are considering implementing or are implementing a cca, which could result in sdg&amp;e providing procurement service for less than half of its current customer load as early as 2021. when customers are served by another load serving entity, sdg&amp;e no longer procures electricity for this departing load and the associated costs of the utility's procured resources could then be borne by sdg&amp;e's remaining bundled procurement customers. state law requires that customers opting to have a cca procure their electricity must absorb the cost of above-market electricity procurement commitments already made by sdg&amp;e on their behalf. if adequate mechanisms are not implemented to ensure compliance with state law, remaining bundled customers of sdg&amp;e could potentially experience large increases in rates for commodity costs under commitments made on behalf of cca customers prior to their departure, which may not be fully recoverable in rates by sdg&amp;e. if legislative, regulatory or legal action were taken to prevent the timely recovery of these procurement costs or if mechanisms are not in place to ensure compliance with state law, the unrecovered costs could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas and natural gas storage has increasingly been the subject of political and public scrutiny, including a desire by some to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source. california legislators and stakeholder, advocacy and activist groups have expressed a desire to further limit or eliminate reliance on natural gas as an energy source by advocating increased use of renewable energy and electrification in lieu of the use of natural gas. the cpuc initiated an oir to update gas reliability standards, determine the regulatory changes necessary to improve coordination between natural gas utilities and natural gas-fired electric generators, and implement a long-term planning strategy to manage the state's transition away from natural gas-fueled technologies to meet california's decarbonization goals. the oir will be conducted in three phases. the first phase will address reliability standards. the second phase will address coordination between natural gas utilities and natural gas-fired electric generators. the third phase will implement a long-term planning strategy. comments on the scope of the new oir were due on february 26, 2020. a substantial reduction or the elimination of natural gas as an energy source in california could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's, socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sdg&amp;e may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned. sdg&amp;e has a 20% ownership interest in songs, formerly a 2,150-mw nuclear generating facility near san clemente, california, that is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, the majority owner of songs. sdg&amp;e, and each of the other owners, is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. although the facility is being decommissioned, sdg&amp;e's ownership interest in songs continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include: the potential release of a radioactive material including from a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami that could cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment; the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility. in addition, sdg&amp;e maintains ndts for providing funds to decommission songs. trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. a decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. furthermore, cpuc approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. cpuc approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the cpuc altogether if the cpuc determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore decommissioning costs may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. rate recovery for overruns would require cpuc approval, which may not occur. 45 interpretations of tax regulations could impact access to ndt funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel management costs. in december 2016, the irs and the u.s. department of treasury issued proposed regulations that clarify the definition of nuclear decommissioning costs. these proposed regulations will be effective prospectively once they are finalized. sdg&amp;e is awaiting the adoption of, or additional refinement to, the proposed regulations before determining whether the proposed regulations will allow sdg&amp;e to timely access the ndt funds for reimbursement or payment of the spent fuel management costs incurred in 2017 and subsequent years. until the litigation against the doe by edison and sdg&amp;e seeking recovery of spent fuel management costs is resolved or irs regulations regarding spent fuel management costs are confirmed to apply, sdg&amp;e expects to continue to pay for its share of such spent fuel management costs without reimbursement from the ndt. if sdg&amp;e is unable to obtain timely access to the trusts for these costs, sdg&amp;e's cash flows could be negatively impacted. the occurrence of any of these events could result in a substantial reduction in our expected recovery and have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. risks related to our interest in oncor certain ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments limit our ability to influence the management and policies of oncor. various ring-fencing measures are in place to enhance oncor's separateness from its owners and to mitigate the risk that oncor would be negatively impacted in the event of a bankruptcy or other adverse financial developments affecting its owners. this ring-fence creates both legal and financial separation between oncor holdings, oncor and their subsidiaries, on the one hand, and sempra energy and its affiliates and subsidiaries, on the other hand. in accordance with the ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments we made in connection with the merger, we and oncor are subject to various restrictions, including, among others: seven members of oncor's 13-person board of directors will be independent directors in relation to sempra energy and any other direct or indirect owners of oncor. with respect to the non-independent directors, two will be designated by sempra energy, two will be appointed by oncor's minority owner, tti, and two will be current or former oncor officers; oncor may not pay any dividends if a majority of its independent directors or a minority member director determines that it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts; oncor will not pay dividends if that payment would cause its debt-to-equity ratio to exceed the debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct; if oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or baa2 for moody's), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct; there must be maintained certain separateness measures that reinforce the financial separation of oncor from sempra energy, including a requirement that dealings between oncor and sempra energy must be on an arm's-length basis, limitations on affiliate transactions and a prohibition on pledging oncor assets or stock for any entity other than oncor; a majority of oncor's independent directors must approve any annual or multi-year budget if the aggregate amount of capital expenditures or o&amp;m in such budget is more than a 10% increase or decrease from the corresponding amounts of such expenditures in the budget for the preceding fiscal year or multi-year period, as applicable; and sempra energy will continue to hold indirectly at least 51% of the ownership interests in oncor holdings and oncor for at least five years following the closing of the merger, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the puct . as a result, we do not control oncor holdings or oncor, and we have limited ability to direct the management, policies and operations of oncor holdings and oncor, including the deployment or disposition of their assets, declarations of dividends, strategic planning and other important corporate issues and actions. we have limited representation on the oncor holdings and oncor board of directors, which are controlled by independent directors. the oncor directors have considerable autonomy and, as described in our commitments, have a duty to act in the best interest of oncor consistent with the approved ring-fence and delaware law, which may be contrary to our best interests or be in opposition to our preferred strategic direction for oncor. to the extent that they take actions that are not in our interests, the financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of sempra energy may be materially adversely affected. if oncor fails to respond to challenges in the electric utility industry, including changes in regulation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, and this could materially adversely affect us. because oncor is regulated by both u.s. federal and texas state authorities, it has been and will continue to be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. the costs and burdens associated with complying with these regulatory requirements and adjusting oncor's business to legislative and regulatory developments may have a material adverse effect on oncor. moreover, 46 potential legislative changes, regulatory changes or other market or industry changes may create greater risks to the predictability of utility earnings generally. if oncor does not successfully respond to these changes, it could suffer a deterioration in its results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects . oncor's operations are capital intensive and it could have liquidity needs that may require us to make additional investments in oncor. oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs with the proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor. similarly, if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional investments in oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may elect to make a capital contribution, rather than a loan, to oncor. sempra energy could incur substantial tax liabilities if efh's 2016 spin-off of vistra from efh is deemed to be taxable. as part of its ongoing bankruptcy proceedings, in 2016, efh distributed all the outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary vistra energy corp. (formerly tceh corp. and referred to herein as vistra) to certain creditors of tceh llc (the spinoff), and vistra became an independent, publicly traded company. vistra's spin-off from efh was intended to qualify for partially tax-free treatment to efh and its stockholders under sections 368(a)(1)(g), 355 and 356 of the irc (collectively referred to as the intended tax treatment). in connection with and as a condition to the spin-off, efh received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain issues relating to the intended tax treatment of the spin-off, as well as tax opinions from counsel to efh and vistra regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the private letter ruling. in connection with the signing and closing of the merger, efh sought and received a supplemental private letter ruling from the irs and sempra energy and efh received tax opinions from their respective counsel that generally provide that the merger will not affect the conclusions reached in, respectively, the irs private letter ruling and tax opinions issued with respect to the spin-off described above. similar to the irs private letter ruling and opinions issued with respect to the spin-off, the supplemental private letter ruling is generally binding on the irs and any opinions issued with respect to the merger are based on factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings, made by sempra energy and efh, now sempra texas holdings corp. and a subsidiary of sempra energy. if such representations and assumptions are untrue or incomplete, any such undertakings are not complied with, or the facts upon which the irs supplemental private letter ruling or tax opinions (which will not impact the irs position on the transactions) are based are different from the actual facts relating to the merger, the tax opinions and/or supplemental private letter ruling may not be valid and as a result, could be successfully challenged by the irs. if it is determined that the merger causes the spin-off not to qualify for the intended tax treatment, sempra energy, through its ownership of sempra texas holdings corp., could incur substantial tax liabilities, which would materially reduce and potentially eliminate the value associated with our indirect investment in oncor and could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects of sempra energy and on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities. should the irs invalidate the private letter ruling and/or the supplemental private letter ruling, sempra texas holdings corp. has administrative appeal rights including the right to challenge any adverse irs position in court. risks related to our businesses other than the california utilities and our interest in oncor business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled, be completed within budget or operate at expected levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the acquisition, development, construction and expansion of lng liquefaction, marine and inland ethane and liquid fuels, and lpg terminals and storage; natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure; and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. we may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. success in developing a project is contingent upon, among other things: negotiation of satisfactory epc agreements negotiation of satisfactory lng offtake and equity agreements 47 negotiation of supply, natural gas and lng sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements and ppas timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses and other authorizations and maintenance of these authorizations our counterparties' financial or other ability to fulfill their contractual commitments timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project successful completion of a project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors: unforeseen engineering problems construction delays due to adverse weather conditions, work stoppages, equipment unavailability and other events and contractor performance shortfalls our counterparties' financial or other inability to fulfill their contractual commitments failure to obtain or maintain required governmental permits, licenses and other authorizations litigation unsettled property rights if we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of liquefaction, regasification and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. in addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt liquefaction, generation, regasification, storage, transmission and distribution systems. the occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. the design, development and construction of the cameron lng liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties. we have a 50.2% interest in cameron lng jv, which is building an lng export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 mtpa of lng with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng, or approximately 1.7 bcf per day. cameron lng jv has a lump-sum, turnkey epc contract with a jv between cb&amp;i, llc (as assignee of cb&amp;i shaw constructors, inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of mcdermott international, inc., and chiyoda international corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of chiyoda corporation. if the epc contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. in january 2020, mcdermott international, inc. filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. mcdermott international, inc. has stated that it expects all of its projects, including the three-train liquefaction project at cameron lng jv, to continue on an uninterrupted basis. however, we cannot be certain the cameron lng jv project will not be interrupted. if the contractor defaults under the epc contract due to the bankruptcy of mcdermott international, inc. or for any other reason, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. the inability to complete the project in a timely manner or within our current expectations, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. if the estimated construction, financing and other project costs for the facility substantially exceed our contingency associated with the project budget adopted at the time of our final investment decision, we may have to make material additional, unexpected cash contributions. the majority of the investment in the liquefaction project is project-financed and the balance is provided by the project partners. any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. in addition, sempra energy has guaranteed a maximum of up to $4.0 billion related to the project financing and financing-related agreements. these guarantees terminate upon cameron lng jv achieving financial completion of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. cameron lng jv's loan facility agreements and related finance documents contain events of default customary for such financings, including a failure to achieve financial completion of the project by a financial completion deadline date of september 30, 2021 (with up to an additional 365 days extension beyond such date permitted in cases of force majeure). a delay in construction that results in a failure to achieve financial completion of the project by this financial completion deadline date would therefore result in an event of default under 48 cameron lng jv's financing and a potential demand on sempra energy's guarantees. we anticipate that the guarantees will be terminated approximately nine months after all three trains achieve commercial operation. if, due to cameron lng jv's failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $4.0 billion under our guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. we face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated lng export facilities. in addition to the three-train cameron lng liquefaction facility described above, we are evaluating several other lng export development opportunities. sempra lng is in discussions with the co-owners of cameron lng jv regarding the potential expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains at the cameron lng liquefaction facility, is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project near port arthur, texas, and, through a jv agreement with ienova, is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca lng regasification facility in baja california, mexico to be developed in two phases (a mid-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 1 and a large-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 2). each of these contemplated projects face numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can reach a final investment decision and proceed with construction. further, a shift in the supply of natural gas could depress lng prices and the cost advantages of exporting lng from the u.s. in addition, global oil prices and their associated current and forward projections could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for lng. this could result in increased competition among those developing projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored export initiatives. such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of alternative fuels in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the lng suppliers for the declining lng demand. at certain moderate levels, oil prices could also make lng projects in other parts of the world more feasible and competitive with lng projects from north america, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available lng demand. a decline in natural gas prices outside the u.s. (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). in connection with these lng export development opportunities, which we discuss further in item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity sempra lng, we have entered into or may enter into heads of agreements, mous and/or similar agreements, all of which are or will be nonbinding and do not or will not obligate any of the parties to execute any agreements or participate in any such opportunities. any decisions by sempra energy or our potential counterparties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the potential development (or expansion) of our liquefaction projects will require, among other things, obtaining customer commitments to purchase lng, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each party. in addition, all our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable additional partners and customers; obtaining financing and incentives; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including equity acquisition and governance agreements, natural gas supply and transportation agreements, lng sale and purchase agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision. furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in north america, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for lng, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. with respect to our port arthur, texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. the eca lng regasification facility and eca lng jv proposed liquefaction project in mexico are subject to on-going land and permit disputes that could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. in addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an lng export facility in the u.s., the regulatory process in mexico and the overlay of u.s. regulations for natural gas exports to an lng export facility in mexico are not well developed. there can be no assurance that a facility could be constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers for eca lng jv phase 2, difficult. finally, the eca lng regasification facility currently has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100% of the regasification facility's capacity through 2028, making the decision to pursue eca lng jv phase 2 dependent in part on whether the investment in a large-scale liquefaction project would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. there can be no assurance that our contemplated lng export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated lng export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects. 49 domestic and international hydraulic fracturing operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties that could increase the costs of doing business, impose additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect production of lng and reduce or eliminate lng export opportunities and demand. hydraulic fracturing operations in the u.s. and outside the u.s. face political and economic risks and other uncertainties with respect to their operations. several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. in addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. we cannot predict whether additional federal, state, local or international laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. if additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in north america could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on henry hub pricing). increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for lng exports and our ability to develop commercially viable lng export facilities beyond the three-train cameron lng facility currently under construction. our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. we buy energy-related commodities from time to time for lng facilities or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, lng, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities can result from multiple factors, such as adverse weather conditions, commodity production levels, and energy and environmental regulations and legislation. when our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices and interest rate risks. sempra mexico and sempra lng generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings and support the construction of new infrastructure. however, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. we may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. however, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. the failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations. increased competition and changes in trade policies could materially adversely affect us. the markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom have extensive and diversified development and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and lng market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. in mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the cfe and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the u.s. and mexico. these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. in addition, the current u.s. administration has indicated its intention to revise or replace international trade agreements, such as nafta. in november 2018, president trump signed the usmca, which, if approved by the legislatures of the u.s., mexico and canada, would replace nafta. the u.s. and mexico approved the usmca in january 2020 and june 2019, respectively, but canada has yet to provide its approval. a shift in u.s. trade policies could materially adversely affect our lng development opportunities, as well as opportunities for trade between mexico and the u.s. we may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our 50 businesses to increased competition. such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise. the eca lng regasification facility has long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties. under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers' lng. we also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase lng to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. the long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying lng supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the eca lng regasification facility were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. for the three-train liquefaction facility currently under construction by cameron lng, cameron lng jv has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with affiliates of total s.a., mitsubishi corporation and mitsui &amp; co., ltd., that subscribe for the full nameplate capacity of the facility. if the counterparties to these tolling agreements were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations to cameron lng jv on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng's ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our lng facilities. a significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of lng and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. the electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. as more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that sempra mexico's facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. if they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. in such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. in addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. the failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. while we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us. certain past assertions made by the cfe and mexican government, coupled with past arbitration requests and other statements and actions by the cfe, raise serious concerns over whether the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts will be honored or disputed in arbitration. the failure by the cfe or other customers to honor the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts and the inability to enter into gas pipeline contracts in the future could have a material adverse effect on sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. sempra mexico's and sempra lng's obligations and those of their suppliers for lng supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for force majeure events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. in addition, we may develop and/or own some projects with other equity owners and, therefore, we may not control all material decisions with respect to those projects, as is the case with the cameron lng jv project. to the extent that there is disagreement amongst the project equity owners with respect to certain decisions affecting such a project, the development, construction or 51 operation of such project may be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. such a circumstance could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, result of operations and/or prospects. our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits. we are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our eca lng regasification facility and eca lng jv proposed liquefaction project in mexico are located, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. if we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which these current and proposed facilities are located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related facilities, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such facilities. in addition, our ability to construct an lng liquefaction export facility may be hindered or halted by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. if we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. we rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver natural gas and electricity. we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: deliver the natural gas and electricity we sell to wholesale markets or that we use for our liquefaction facilities; supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities; and provide retail energy services to customers. sempra mexico and sempra lng also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. sempra mexico and sempra lng also rely on specialized ships to transport lng to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. sempra mexico's subsidiaries, as well as our south american businesses that are held for sale, rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and lng at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges. in mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas distribution and transportation assets, lpg storage and transportation facilities, ethane transportation assets, electricity generation facilities, lng facilities and ethane and liquid fuels marine and inland terminals. in peru and chile, we own or have interests in electric transmission, distribution and generation infrastructure and operations, which are held for sale. developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant security, political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including: changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and u.s. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations; actions by local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses; adverse changes in market conditions, trade restrictions, limitations on ownership in foreign countries and inadequate enforcement of regulations; foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund u.s. operations, or available only at unfavorable u.s. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law; permitting and regulatory compliance; adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in mexico; energy policy reform that may result in adverse changes to and/or difficulty in enforcing existing contracts, as we discuss below; expropriation or theft of assets; adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate; social unrest; and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws . in addition, the mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the mexican economy. accordingly, mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and certain governmental agencies, including the cfe 52 could have a significant impact on mexican private sector entities in general and on ienova's operations in particular. for example, the cfe and the mexican government took certain actions in 2019 that raised serious concerns over whether the terms of sempra mexico's gas pipeline contracts would be honored or disputed in arbitration. ienova and other affected natural gas pipeline developers joined the cfe and the president of mexico's representatives in negotiations and were able to resolve the dispute, but we cannot predict whether similar disputes may arise and/or whether such disputes will be resolved on favorable terms to us, if at all. we also cannot predict the impact that the political landscape, including multiparty rule and civil disobedience, will have on the mexican economy. such circumstances, may materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects in mexico, which could have a material adverse effect on sempra's consolidated financial statements. we discuss litigation related to sempra mexico's international energy projects in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. other risks sempra energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control. sempra energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. as described above, sdg&amp;e holds a 20% ownership interest in songs, which is in the process of being decommissioned by edison, its majority owner. as a result of ring-fencing measures, governance mechanisms and commitments, we account for our indirect, 100% ownership interest in oncor holdings, which, at december 31, 2019, owns an 80.25% interest in oncor, as an equity method investment. sempra lng accounts for its 50.2% interest in cameron lng jv under the equity method. sempra mexico has a 40% interest in a jv with a subsidiary of tc energy to build, own and operate the sur de texas-tuxpan natural gas marine pipeline in mexico, a 50% interest in a renewables wind project in baja california, and a 50% interest in the los ramones norte pipeline in mexico. sempra energy has an equity method investment in the rbs sempra commodities partnership, which is in the process of being dissolved and for which sempra energy is subject to certain indemnities as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. any adverse resolution of matters associated with our ownership interest in the rbs sempra commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. sempra lng provided guarantees related to cameron lng jv's financing agreements, and sempra mexico has provided loans to jvs in which they have investments. we discuss the guarantees in note 6 and affiliate loans in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. in addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. we discuss our investments further in notes 5, 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. market performance or changes in other assumptions could require sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and/or socalgas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. a decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. in addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. an adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. impairment of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. as of december 31, 2019, sempra energy had approximately $1,602 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 2.44% of the total assets on its consolidated balance sheet, primarily related to the acquisitions of ienova pipelines and ventika in mexico. goodwill is not amortized, but we test it for impairment annually on october 1 or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, which could result in our recording a goodwill impairment loss. we discuss our annual goodwill impairment testing process and the factors considered in such testing in item 7. md&amp;a critical 53 accounting policies and estimates and in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a goodwill impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the period in which such charge is recorded. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we own or lease land, warehouses, offices, operating and maintenance centers, shops, service facilities and equipment necessary to conduct our businesses. each of our operating segments currently has adequate space and, if we needed more space, we believe it is readily available. we discuss properties related to our electric, natural gas and energy infrastructure operations in item 1. business and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. item 3. legal proceedings we are not party to, and our property is not the subject of, any material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our businesses) except for the matters described in notes 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, item 1a. risk factors and item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 54 part ii. item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information sempra energy common stock our common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the ticker symbol sre. at february 21, 2020 , there were approximately 24,151 record holders of our common stock. socalgas and sdg&amp;e common stock information concerning dividend declarations for socalgas and sdg&amp;e is included in their statements of changes in shareholders' equity and statements of changes in equity, respectively, set forth in the consolidated financial statements. dividend restrictions the payment and the amount of future dividends for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, and socalgas are within the discretion of their boards of directors. the cpuc's regulation of the california utilities' capital structures limits the amounts that the california utilities can pay sempra energy in the form of loans and dividends. we discuss these matters in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in restricted net assets and in item 7. md&amp;a capital resources and liquidity dividends. purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers on september 11, 2007, the sempra energy board of directors authorized the repurchase of sempra energy common stock provided that the amounts spent for such purpose do not exceed the greater of $2 billion or amounts spent to purchase no more than 40 million shares. no shares have been repurchased under this authorization since 2011. approximately $500 million remains authorized by our board of directors for the purchase of additional shares, not to exceed approximately 12 million shares. we also may, from time to time, purchase shares of our common stock to which participants would otherwise be entitled from ltip participants who elect to sell a sufficient number of shares in connection with the vesting of rsus and stock options in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. item 6. selected financial data five-year summaries the following tables present selected financial data of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas for the five years ended december 31, 2019 . the data is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of each company. you should read this information in conjunction with item 7. md&amp;a and the consolidated financial statements and notes contained in this annual report on form 10-k. 55 five-year summary of selected financial data sempra energy consolidated (in millions, except per share amounts) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 revenues: utilities natural gas $ 5,185 $ 4,540 $ 4,361 $ 4,050 $ 4,096 electric 4,263 3,999 3,929 3,748 3,711 energy-related businesses 1,381 1,563 1,350 829 880 total revenues $ 10,829 $ 10,102 $ 9,640 $ 8,627 $ 8,687 income from continuing operations, net of income tax $ 1,999 $ 938 $ 382 $ 1,292 $ 1,256 income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 363 188 (31 ) 227 192 net income 2,362 1,126 351 1,519 1,448 earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (164 ) (76 ) (94 ) (148 ) (98 ) mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends (142 ) (125 ) preferred dividends of subsidiary (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) earnings attributable to common shares $ 2,055 $ 924 $ 256 $ 1,370 $ 1,349 basic eps: earnings from continuing operations $ 6.22 $ 2.86 $ 1.25 $ 4.66 $ 4.77 earnings (losses) from discontinued operations $ 1.18 $ 0.59 $ (0.23 ) $ 0.82 $ 0.66 earnings $ 7.40 $ 3.45 $ 1.02 $ 5.48 $ 5.43 diluted eps: earnings from continuing operations $ 6.13 $ 2.84 $ 1.24 $ 4.65 $ 4.71 earnings (losses) from discontinued operations $ 1.16 $ 0.58 $ (0.23 ) $ 0.81 $ 0.66 earnings $ 7.29 $ 3.42 $ 1.01 $ 5.46 $ 5.37 dividends declared per common share $ 3.87 $ 3.58 $ 3.29 $ 3.02 $ 2.80 effective income tax rate 18 % (10 )% 73 % 22 % 17 % weighted-average rate base: sdg&amp;e $ 10,467 $ 9,619 $ 8,549 $ 8,019 $ 7,671 socalgas $ 7,401 $ 6,413 $ 5,493 $ 4,775 $ 4,269 at december 31 current assets $ 3,339 $ 3,645 $ 3,341 $ 3,110 $ 2,891 total assets $ 65,665 $ 60,638 $ 50,454 $ 47,786 $ 41,150 current liabilities $ 9,150 $ 7,523 $ 6,635 $ 5,927 $ 4,612 long-term debt and finance leases (excludes current portion) (1) $ 20,785 $ 20,903 $ 15,829 $ 13,865 $ 12,582 short-term debt (2) $ 5,031 $ 3,668 $ 2,790 $ 2,542 $ 1,437 sempra energy shareholders' equity $ 19,929 $ 17,138 $ 12,670 $ 12,951 $ 11,809 common shares outstanding 291.7 273.8 251.4 250.2 248.3 book value per common share $ 60.58 $ 54.35 $ 50.40 $ 51.77 $ 47.56 (1) excludes discontinued operations. (2) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of finance lease obligations. excludes discontinued operations. in 2019, sempra renewables completed the sale of its remaining u.s. wind assets and investments and recognized a pretax gain on sale of $61 million ($45 million after tax and nci). in 2018, sempra renewables completed the sale of its u.s. operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects, as well as an interest in one wind facility, and recognized a pretax gain on sale of $513 million ($367 million after tax). we discuss the sales and related gains in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $1.1 billion ($629 million after tax and nci) at sempra lng, $200 million ($145 million after tax) at sempra renewables and $65 million at parent and other. we discuss the impairments in notes 5 , 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 56 in 2018, sempra energy completed registered public offerings of our common stock (including shares offered pursuant to forward sale agreements), series a preferred stock, series b preferred stock and long-term debt. these offerings, including settlement of a portion of the forward sale agreements, provided total net proceeds of approximately $4.5 billion in equity and $4.9 billion in debt. a portion of these proceeds were used to partially fund the acquisition of an indirect, 100 % interest in oncor holdings, which we account for as an equity method investment. we discuss the acquisition and equity method investment further in notes 5 and 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017, sempra energy's income tax expense included $870 million related to the impact of the tcja, as we discuss in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, item 7. md&amp;a income taxes and item 7. md&amp;a discontinued operations. in 2017, we recorded a charge of $208 million (after tax) for the write-off of sdg&amp;e's wildfire regulatory asset, which we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2017 and 2016, sempra mexico recognized impairment charges of $47 million (after nci) and $90 million (after tax and nci), respectively, related to assets held for sale at tdm. we discuss the impairments in notes 5 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in 2016, we recorded a $350 million (after tax and nci) noncash gain associated with the remeasurement of sempra mexico's equity interest in ienova pipelines (formerly known as gdc). in 2016, ienova completed a private offering in the u.s. and outside of mexico and a concurrent public offering in mexico of common stock. we discuss litigation and other contingencies in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. five-year summaries of selected financial data sdg&amp;e and socalgas (dollars in millions) at december 31 or for the years then ended 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 sdg&amp;e: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 4,925 $ 4,568 $ 4,476 $ 4,253 $ 4,219 operating income 1,313 1,010 709 976 1,045 earnings attributable to common shares 767 669 407 570 587 balance sheet data: total assets $ 20,560 $ 19,225 $ 17,844 $ 17,719 $ 16,515 long-term debt and finance leases (excludes current portion) 6,306 6,138 5,335 4,658 4,455 short-term debt (1) 136 372 473 191 218 sdg&amp;e shareholder's equity 7,100 6,015 5,598 5,641 5,223 socalgas: statement of operations data: operating revenues $ 4,525 $ 3,962 $ 3,785 $ 3,471 $ 3,489 operating income 956 591 627 551 548 dividends on preferred stock 1 1 1 1 1 earnings attributable to common shares 641 400 396 349 419 balance sheet data: total assets $ 17,077 $ 15,389 $ 14,159 $ 13,424 $ 12,104 long-term debt and finance leases (excludes current portion) 3,788 3,427 2,485 2,982 2,481 short-term debt (1) 636 259 617 62 9 socalgas shareholders' equity 4,748 4,258 3,907 3,510 3,149 (1) includes long-term debt due within one year and current portion of finance lease obligations. 57 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview in 2018, we set out to simplify sempra energy's business model and sharpen our focus on building north america's premier energy infrastructure company. our 2019 operational and financial results reflect our focus on executing this strategy: the california utilities received a constructive final grc decision for the 2019 revenue requirement and attrition year adjustments for 2020 and 2021, and a final decision in the 2020 cost of capital proceeding. sdg&amp;e contributed to the wildfire fund that was created through the wildfire legislation that addresses certain issues related to catastrophic wildfires in california. we supported oncor's acquisition of infrareit and acquired an indirect 50% interest in sharyland holdings in texas. cameron lng jv's train 1 commenced commercial operation. we sold our non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. (comprised of mississippi hub and bay gas) and our remaining u.s. wind assets and investments. in april 2019, our sempra renewables segment ceased to exist. we entered into agreements to sell our equity interests in our south american businesses, which were previously included in our sempra south american utilities segment, and expect those sales to close in the first half of 2020. our south american businesses and certain activities associated with those businesses have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. nominal activities that are not classified as discontinued operations have been subsumed into parent and other. our discussions below exclude discontinued operations, unless otherwise noted. results of operations we discuss the following in results of operations: overall results of operations of sempra energy segment results significant changes in revenues, costs and earnings impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations overall results of operations of sempra energy in 2019 , our earnings increased by approximately $1,131 million to $2,055 million and our diluted eps increased by $3.87 to $7.29 . in 2018 compared to 2017 , our earnings increased by $668 million to $924 million and our diluted eps increased by $2.41 to $3.42 . the change in diluted eps for 2019 and 2018 included decreases of $(0.33) and $(0.24), respectively, attributable to an increase in weighted-average common shares outstanding. our earnings and diluted eps were impacted by variances discussed in segment results below. segment results the following section presents earnings (losses) by sempra energy segment, as well as parent and other, and the related discussion of the changes in segment earnings (losses). throughout the md&amp;a, our reference to earnings represents earnings attributable to common shares. variance amounts presented are the after-tax earnings impact (based on applicable statutory tax rates), unless otherwise noted, and before nci, where applicable. as we discuss below in significant changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes, in december 2017, the tcja was signed into law. the tcja reduced the u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective january 1, 2018. after-tax variances between 2018 and 2017 assume that amounts in both years were taxed at the 2017 statutory rate. 58 sempra energy earnings (losses) by segment (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 sdg&amp;e $ 767 $ 669 $ 407 socalgas 641 400 396 sempra texas utilities 528 371 sempra mexico 253 237 169 sempra renewables 59 328 252 sempra lng (6 ) (617 ) 150 parent and other (1) (515 ) (620 ) (1,060 ) discontinued operations 328 156 (58 ) earnings attributable to common shares $ 2,055 $ 924 $ 256 (1) includes $914 million income tax expense from the effects of the tcja in 2017, intercompany eliminations recorded in consolidation and certain corporate costs . sdg&amp;e the increase in earnings of $98 million ( 15% ) in 2019 was primarily due to: $71 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2019, net of operating expenses; $31 million income tax benefit from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the cpuc directed to be allocated to shareholders in a january 2019 decision; and $11 million higher margin from electric transmission operations, net of a ferc formulaic rate adjustment benefit in 2018; offset by $10 million amortization of wildfire fund asset. the increase in earnings of $262 million in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to: $208 million charge in 2017 for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with 2007 wildfire costs; $65 million higher margin from electric transmission operations in 2018, including the annual ferc formulaic rate adjustment; $28 million unfavorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of certain u.s. federal deferred income tax assets as a result of the tcja; and $27 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2018, primarily related to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; offset by $35 million higher net interest expense, of which $25 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; and $11 million unfavorable impact due to lower cost of capital related to grc base business, which excludes incremental projects and other balanced capital programs, in 2018, of which $2 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018. socalgas the increase in earnings of $241 million in 2019 was primarily due to: $216 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2019, net of operating expenses; $38 million income tax benefit from the impact of the january 2019 cpuc decision allocating certain excess deferred income tax balances to shareholders; $22 million from impacts associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation in 2018; and $14 million higher income tax benefits from flow-through items; offset by $21 million impairment of non-utility native gas assets in 2019; $18 million higher net interest expense; and $8 million penalties in 2019 related to the socalgas billing practices oii. the increase in earnings of $4 million ( 1% ) in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to: $36 million higher cpuc base operating margin authorized for 2018, net of expenses including depreciation (of this increase, $28 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018); and $16 million higher psep earnings; offset by $22 million higher net interest expense, of which $15 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; $21 million unfavorable impact due to lower cost of capital related to grc base business in 2018, of which $4 million relates to the lower federal income tax rate in 2018; and 59 $22 million in 2018 from impacts associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation compared to $20 million in 2017. sempra texas utilities the increase in earnings of $157 million ( 42% ) in 2019 primarily represents higher equity earnings from oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018, driven by the impact of oncor's acquisition of infrareit in may 2019 and higher revenues due to rate updates to reflect increases in invested transmission capital, partially offset by higher operating costs. earnings of $371 million in 2018 represent equity earnings from our investment in oncor holdings. sempra mexico the increase in earnings of $16 million ( 7% ) in 2019 was primarily due to: $18 million primarily due to the start of commercial operations of the sur de texas-tuxpan marine pipeline at img jv in the third quarter of 2019; $16 million lower income tax expense in 2019 primarily from a two-year tax abatement that expires in 2020; and $122 million earnings attributable to nci at ienova in 2019 compared to $132 million earnings in 2018; offset by $20 million lower earnings primarily from force majeure payments that ended on august 22, 2019 with respect to the guaymas-el oro segment of the sonora pipeline; and $17 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of: in 2019, $88 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $29 million gain from foreign currency derivatives, offset by in 2018, $43 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $1 million gain from foreign currency derivatives (we discuss these effects below in impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations. ) the increase in earnings of $68 million ( 40% ) in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to: $107 million higher earnings at tdm, including $71 million impairment in 2017 of assets that were held for sale until june 1, 2018 and $32 million improved operating results primarily as a result of major maintenance in 2017 and higher revenues in 2018; $37 million higher earnings, primarily attributable to pipeline assets placed in service in the second quarter of 2017 and ienova's increased indirect ownership interest in tag jv; and $10 million improved operating results at ecogas, mainly due to new rates approved by the cre and regulated revenues associated with recovery for revised tariffs; offset by $132 million earnings attributable to nci at ienova in 2018 compared to $73 million in 201 7; $22 million lower capitalized financing costs, primarily associated with assets placed in service at the end of the first half of 2017, net of higher equity earnings in 2018 from afudc at img jv; and $7 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency and inflation effects, net of foreign currency derivatives effects, comprised of: in 2018, $43 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $1 million gain from foreign currency derivatives, offset by in 2017, $84 million unfavorable foreign currency and inflation effects, offset by a $49 million gain from foreign currency derivatives. sempra renewables as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, sempra renewables sold its remaining wind assets and investments in april 2019, upon which date the segment ceased to exist. the decrease in earnings of $269 million in 2019 was primarily due to: $367 million gain on the sale of all sempra renewables' operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects and its 50% interest in a wind power generation facility in december 2018; and $92 million lower earnings from assets sold in december 2018 and april 2019, net of lower general and administrative and other costs due to the wind-down of this business ; offset by $145 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain u.s. wind equity method investments in 2018; and $45 million gain on sale of sempra renewables' remaining wind assets in 2019. 60 the increase in earnings of $76 million ( 30% ) in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to: $367 million gain on the sale of all sempra renewables' operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects and its 50% interest in a wind power generation facility in december 2018; $35 million higher pretax losses attributed to nci, including the impact of the tcja on nci allocations computed using the hlbv method; and $19 million lower depreciation as a result of solar and wind assets held for sale; offset by $192 million favorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities as a result of the tcja; and $145 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain u.s. wind equity method investments in 2018. sempra lng the decrease in losses of $611 million in 2019 was primarily due to: $665 million net impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. in 2018, including $801 million impairment in the second quarter of 2018, offset by a $136 million reduction to the impairment in the fourth quarter of 2018; $17 million higher equity earnings from cameron lng jv, including: $36 million increase primarily due to train 1 commencing commercial operation under its tolling agreements in august 2019, offset by $19 million decrease due to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and associated fees related to cameron lng jv's debt refinancing; and $9 million unfavorable adjustment in 2018 to tcja provisional amounts recorded in 2017 related to the remeasurement of deferred income taxes; offset by $36 million losses attributable to nci in 2018 related to the net impairment discussed above; and $28 million higher liquefaction project development costs and operating costs. losses of $617 million in 2018 compared to earnings of $150 million in 2017 were primarily due to: $665 million net impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in 2018; $142 million higher income tax expense in 2018, which included $133 million favorable impact in 2017 from the remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax liabilities as a result of the tcja and $9 million unfavorable impact in 2018 to adjust tcja provisional amounts recorded in 2017; and $34 million settlement proceeds in 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty in bankruptcy court, of which $28 million related to a charge in 2016 from the permanent release of certain pipeline capacity; offset by $36 million losses attributable to nci in 2018 related to the net impairment discussed above; $24 million higher earnings from midstream activities primarily driven by lower depreciation and amortization as a result of natural gas storage assets held for sale; and $15 million improved results in 2018 from lng marketing activities. parent and other the decrease in losses of $105 million ( 17% ) in 2019 was primarily due to: $65 million impairment of the rbs sempra commodities equity method investment in 2018; $48 million higher investment gains in 2019 on dedicated assets in support of our employee nonqualified benefit plan obligations, net of deferred compensation expenses; $32 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional amounts recorded in 2017 related to the tcja; and $10 million income tax benefit in 2019 to reduce a valuation allowance against certain nol carryforwards as a result of our decision to sell our south american businesses; offset by $17 million increase in mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends primarily from the issuance of series b preferred stock in july 2018; $11 million increase primarily related to settlement charges from our nonqualified pension plan; and $11 million loss from foreign currency derivatives used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the peruvian sol related to the sale of our operations in peru. 61 the decrease in losses of $440 million ( 42% ) in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to: $914 million unfavorable impact in 2017 from the tcja, offset by $32 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional amounts recorded in 2017 (we discuss the impacts from the tcja in significant changes in revenues, costs and earnings income taxes below); offset by $179 million increase in net interest expense, of which $58 million relates to the lower tax rate in 2018; $125 million mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends declared; $65 million impairment of the rbs sempra commodities equity method investment; and $15 million investment losses in 2018 compared to $41 million investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our employee nonqualified benefit plan obligations, net of deferred compensation expenses. discontinued operations discontinued operations that were previously in our sempra south american utilities segment include our 100% interest in chilquinta energ a in chile, our 83.6% interest in luz del sur in peru and our interests in two energy-services companies, tecnored and tecsur, which provide electric construction and infrastructure services to chilquinta energ a and luz del sur, respectively, as well as third parties. discontinued operations also include activities, mainly income taxes related to the south american businesses, that were previously included in the holding company of the south american businesses at parent and other. the increase in earnings of $172 million in 2019 was primarily due to: $91 million higher earnings from south american operations mainly from higher rates, lower cost of purchased power at peru, and including $38 million lower depreciation expense due to assets classified as held for sale; $89 million income tax benefit in 2019 from outside basis differences in our south american businesses primarily related to the change in our indefinite reinvestment assertion from our decision on january 25, 2019 to hold those businesses for sale and a change in the anticipated structure of the sale; and $44 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust tcja provisional amounts recorded in 2017 primarily related to withholding tax on our expected future repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings; offset by $51 million income tax expense related to the increase in outside basis differences from 2019 earnings since january 25, 2019. earnings of $156 million in 2018 compared to losses of $58 million in 2017 were primarily due to a $251 million unfavorable impact in 2017 from the tcja, offset by $44 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional amounts recorded in 2017. significant changes in revenues, costs and earnings this section contains a discussion of the differences between periods in the specific line items of the consolidated statements of operations for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. utilities revenues our utilities revenues include natural gas revenues at our california utilities and sempra mexico's ecogas and electric revenues at sdg&amp;e. intercompany revenues included in the separate revenues of each utility are eliminated in the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. socalgas and sdg&amp;e currently operate under a regulatory framework that permits: the cost of natural gas purchased for core customers (primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers) to be passed through to customers in rates substantially as incurred. however, socalgas' gcim provides socalgas the opportunity to share in the savings and/or costs from buying natural gas for its core customers at prices below or above monthly market-based benchmarks. this mechanism permits full recovery of costs incurred when average purchase costs are within a price range around the benchmark price. any higher costs incurred or savings realized outside this range are shared between the core customers and socalgas. we provide further discussion in note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in item 1. business ratemaking mechanisms. sdg&amp;e to recover the actual cost incurred to generate or procure electricity based on annual estimates of the cost of electricity supplied to customers. the differences in cost between estimates and actual are recovered or refunded in subsequent periods through rates. the california utilities to recover certain expenses for programs authorized by the cpuc, or refundable programs. because changes in socalgas' and sdg&amp;e's cost of natural gas and/or electricity are recovered in rates, changes in these costs are offset in the changes in revenues, and therefore do not impact earnings. in addition to the changes in cost or market prices, 62 natural gas or electric revenues recorded during a period are impacted by customer billing cycles causing a difference between customer billings and recorded or authorized costs. these differences are required to be balanced over time, resulting in over- and undercollected regulatory balancing accounts. we discuss balancing accounts and their effects further in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the table below summarizes utilities revenues and cost of sales. utilities revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 natural gas revenues: socalgas $ 4,525 $ 3,962 $ 3,785 sdg&amp;e 658 565 541 sempra mexico 73 78 110 eliminations and adjustments (71 ) (65 ) (75 ) total 5,185 4,540 4,361 electric revenues: sdg&amp;e 4,267 4,003 3,935 eliminations and adjustments (4 ) (4 ) (6 ) total 4,263 3,999 3,929 total utilities revenues $ 9,448 $ 8,539 $ 8,290 cost of natural gas: socalgas $ 977 $ 1,048 $ 1,025 sdg&amp;e 176 152 164 sempra mexico 14 21 70 eliminations and adjustments (28 ) (13 ) (69 ) total $ 1,139 $ 1,208 $ 1,190 cost of electric fuel and purchased power: sdg&amp;e $ 1,194 $ 1,370 $ 1,293 eliminations and adjustments (6 ) (12 ) total $ 1,188 $ 1,358 $ 1,293 natural gas revenues and cost of natural gas the table below summarizes the average cost of natural gas sold by the california utilities and included in cost of natural gas. the average cost of natural gas sold at each utility is impacted by market prices, as well as transportation, tariff and other charges. california utilities average cost of natural gas (dollars per thousand cubic feet) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 socalgas $ 3.07 $ 3.58 $ 3.44 sdg&amp;e 3.91 3.81 4.08 in 2019 , our natural gas revenues increased by $645 million ( 14% ) to $5.2 billion primarily due to: $563 million increase at socalgas, which included: $383 million higher authorized revenue in 2019, $105 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m, $62 million higher non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2019, which fully offsets in other income, net, $29 million charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, and $16 million higher net revenues from psep, offset by $71 million decrease in the cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below; and 63 $93 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included: $68 million higher authorized revenue in 2019, and $24 million increase in the cost of natural gas sold, which we discuss below. in 2018 compared to 2017 , our natural gas revenues increased by $179 million ( 4% ) to $4.5 billion primarily due to: $177 million increase at socalgas, which included: $160 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m, $71 million increase in 2018 due to an increase in rates permitted under the attrition mechanism in the 2016 grc fd, $23 million increase in cost of natural gas sold, and $19 million decrease in charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd, offset by $67 million revenue deferral due to the effect of the tcja, $29 million lower cost of capital related to grc base business in 2018, and $10 million lower net revenues from capital projects, including $60 million decrease for advanced metering infrastructure due to completion of the project, offset by increases of $14 million for psep and $36 million for other capital projects; and $24 million increase at sdg&amp;e primarily due to higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m, and 2018 attrition; offset by $32 million decrease at sempra mexico, which included: $46 million lower volumes at ecogas primarily as a result of the new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018 that no longer allow ecogas to sell natural gas to high consumption end users (defined by the cre as customers with annual consumption that exceeds 4,735 mmbtu) and require those end users to procure their natural gas needs from natural gas marketers, including sempra mexico's marketing business, offset by $13 million higher rates approved by the cre, including $7 million from a regulatory adjustment to rates charged to end users in 2014 through 2016. our cost of natural gas decreased by $69 million ( 6% ) to $1.1 billion in 2019 primarily due to: $71 million decrease at socalgas, including $164 million due to lower average natural gas prices, offset by $93 million from higher volumes driven by weather ; and $15 million increase in intercompany eliminations primarily associated with sales between sempra lng and socalgas; offset by $24 million increase at sdg&amp;e, including $19 million from higher volumes driven by weather and $5 million from higher average natural gas prices . our cost of natural gas increased by $18 million ( 2% ), remaining at $1.2 billion in 2018 compared to 2017, primarily due to: $56 million increase primarily from lower elimination of intercompany costs at sempra mexico; and $23 million increase at socalgas due to $43 million from higher average gas prices, offset by $20 million from lower volumes driven by weather; offset by $49 million decrease at sempra mexico primarily associated with the lower revenues at ecogas; and $12 million decrease at sdg&amp;e primarily due to lower average gas prices. electric revenues and cost of electric fuel and purchased power our electric revenues increased by $264 million ( 7% ) to $ 4.3 billion in 2019 primarily attributable to sdg&amp;e, including: $121 million higher authorized revenue in 2019, including $108 million of revenues to cover liability insurance premium costs that are now balanced and offset in o&amp;m; $40 million higher revenues from transmission operations, net of a ferc formulaic rate adjustment benefit in 2018 ; $34 million higher recovery of costs associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, excluding 2019 liability insurance premium costs, which revenues are offset in o&amp;m; $27 million higher finance lease costs, offset by lower cost of electric fuel and purchased power, which we discuss below; and $21 million charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd. in 2018 compared to 2017 , our electric revenues increased by $70 million ( 2% ) to $4.0 billion primarily attributable to sdg&amp;e, including: 64 $77 million higher cost of electric fuel and purchased power; $50 million higher revenues from transmission operations, including the annual ferc formulaic rate adjustment; $32 million decrease in charges in 2018 associated with tracking the income tax benefit from certain flow-through items in relation to forecasted amounts in the 2016 grc fd; and $32 million increase due to 2018 attrition; offset by $65 million revenue deferral due to the effect of the tcja; $39 million revenue deferral related to the songs settlement, which is offset by the discontinuation of amortization; and $13 million lower cost of capital related to the cpuc base business in 2018. our utility cost of electric fuel and purchased power decreased by $170 million ( 13% ) to $1.2 billion in 2019 , primarily attributable to sdg&amp;e, including: $103 million of finance lease costs for ppas in 2018. similar amounts are now included in interest expense and depreciation and amortization expense as a result of the 2019 adoption of the lease standard; and $73 million decrease primarily from lower electricity market cost, offset by an increase primarily due to an additional capacity contract. our utility cost of electric fuel and purchased power increased by $65 million ( 5% ) to $1.4 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily attributable to sdg&amp;e, driven primarily by higher gas prices and electricity market costs, partially offset by lower cost of purchased power from renewable sources due to decreased solar and wind production and from lower capacity contract costs. energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales the table below shows revenues and cost of sales for our energy-related businesses. energy-related businesses: revenues and cost of sales (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 revenues sempra mexico $ 1,302 $ 1,298 $ 1,086 sempra renewables 10 124 94 sempra lng 410 472 540 parent and other (2) (341 ) (331 ) (370 ) total revenues $ 1,381 $ 1,563 $ 1,350 cost of sales (1) sempra mexico $ 373 $ 363 $ 261 sempra lng 299 313 352 parent and other (2) (328 ) (319 ) (322 ) total cost of sales $ 344 $ 357 $ 291 (1) excludes depreciation and amortization, which are presented separately on the sempra energy consolidated statements of operations. (2) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. revenues from our energy-related businesses decreased by $182 million ( 12% ) to $1.4 billion in 2019 while the related cost of sales for 2019 was comparable to 2018. the decrease in revenues included: $114 million decrease at sempra renewables primarily due to the sale of assets in december 2018 and april 2019; and $62 million decrease at sempra lng primarily due to: $45 million lower natural gas storage revenues primarily due to the sale of storage assets in february 2019, $15 million from the marketing business due to lower turnback cargo revenues, and $12 million from lng sales to cameron lng jv in january 2018, offset by $14 million from natural gas marketing activities primarily due to changes in natural gas prices; offset by $4 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to: $23 million from the marketing business, including an increase in volumes due to new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018 that require high consumption end users (previously serviced by ecogas and other natural gas utilities) to procure their natural gas needs from natural gas marketers, such as sempra mexico's marketing business, offset by lower natural gas prices, and 65 $6 million increase primarily due to renewable assets placed in service in 2019, offset by $27 million lower revenues primarily from force majeure payments that ended on august 22, 2019 with respect to the guaymas-el oro segment of the sonora pipeline. in 2018 compared to 2017 , revenues from our energy-related businesses increased by $213 million ( 16% ) to $1.6 billion . the increase included: $212 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to: $84 million from the marketing business, primarily due to new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018 and from higher volumes and gas prices, $69 million at tdm primarily due to the plant outage in 2017 as a result of scheduled major maintenance and higher power prices, $34 million primarily due to pipeline assets placed in service in the second quarter of 2017, and $18 million from o&amp;m services provided to the tag jv; $39 million increase from lower intercompany eliminations associated with sales between sempra lng and sempra mexico; and $30 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2018; offset by $68 million decrease at sempra lng primarily due to: $98 million costs associated with indemnity payments to sempra mexico in 2018. indemnity payments of $103 million in 2017 were recorded in energy-related businesses cost of sales prior to adoption of asc 606, offset by $50 million from the marketing business primarily from higher natural gas sales and turnback cargo revenues. the cost of sales for our energy-related businesses increased by $66 million ( 23% ) to $357 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to: $102 million at sempra mexico primarily associated with higher revenues from the marketing business as a result of the new regulations that went into effect on march 1, 2018. the increase at sempra mexico was also due to higher volumes in 2018 due to the tdm plant outage in 2017; $57 million in settlement proceeds received by sempra lng in may 2017 from a breach of contract claim against a counterparty, of which $47 million is related to a charge in 2016 from permanent release of pipeline capacity; and $4 million lower intercompany eliminations of costs between sempra lng and sempra mexico, including $103 million elimination of indemnity payments made by sempra lng in 2017 now recorded as a reduction to energy-related business revenues since adoption of asc 606; offset by $88 million decrease at sempra lng primarily due to indemnity payments to sempra mexico in 2017 recorded in revenue in 2018 pursuant to adoption of asc 606. 66 operation and maintenance in the table below, we provide o&amp;m by segment. operation and maintenance (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 sdg&amp;e (1) $ 1,175 $ 1,058 $ 1,024 socalgas 1,780 1,613 1,474 sempra mexico 256 239 234 sempra renewables 18 89 73 sempra lng 156 123 123 parent and other (2) 81 28 19 total operation and maintenance $ 3,466 $ 3,150 $ 2,947 (1) excludes $6 million of impairment losses, which we discuss below. (2) includes eliminations of intercompany activity. our o&amp;m increased by $316 million ( 10% ) to $3.5 billion in 2019 primarily due to: $167 million increase at socalgas, which included: $105 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs for which costs incurred are recovered in revenue (refundable program expenses), and $57 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs; $117 million increase at sdg&amp;e which included: $147 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, including $112 million of 2019 liability insurance premium costs that are now balanced in revenue, and $12 million amortization of wildfire fund asset, offset by $46 million lower non-refundable operating costs, including $87 million decrease from liability insurance premium costs for 2018 that were not balanced, offset by $41 million of higher operating costs; $53 million increase at parent and other primarily from higher deferred compensation expense; $33 million increase at sempra lng primarily from higher liquefaction development project costs and higher operating costs; and $17 million increase at sempra mexico primarily due to expenses associated with growth in the business and operating lease costs in 2019; offset by $71 million decrease at sempra renewables primarily due to lower general and administrative and other costs due to the wind-down of the business. our o&amp;m increased by $203 million ( 7% ) to $3.2 billion in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to: $139 million increase at socalgas, which included: $160 million higher expenses associated with cpuc-authorized refundable programs, offset by $20 million aliso canyon litigation reserves in 2017; $34 million increase at sdg&amp;e, which included: $22 million higher non-refundable operating costs, including labor, contract services and administrative and support costs, and $11 million reimbursement of litigation costs in 2017 associated with the arbitration ruling over the songs replacement steam generators; and $16 million increase at sempra renewables primarily due to solar and wind assets placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2018 and selling costs associated with the sale of assets. write-off of wildfire regulatory asset in 2017, sdg&amp;e recorded a $351 million charge for the write-off of a regulatory asset associated with 2007 wildfire costs. we discuss this further in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 67 impairment losses in 2019, socalgas recognized a $29 million impairment loss related to non-utility native gas assets, and sdg&amp;e and socalgas recognized impairment losses of $6 million and $8 million, respectively, for certain disallowed capital costs in the 2019 grc fd. in 2018, sempra lng recognized a $1.1 billion net impairment loss for certain non-utility natural gas storage assets in the southeast u.s. in 2017, sempra mexico reduced the carrying value of tdm by recognizing noncash impairment charges of $71 million. gain on sale of assets in april 2019, sempra renewables recognized a $61 million gain on the sale of its remaining wind assets and investments to aep. in december 2018, sempra renewables recognized a $513 million gain on the sale of all its operating solar assets, solar and battery storage development projects and its 50% interest in a wind power generation facility to a subsidiary of con ed. other income, net as part of our central risk management function, we enter into foreign currency derivatives to hedge sempra mexico parent's exposure to movements in the mexican peso from its controlling interest in ienova. the gains/losses associated with these derivatives are included in other income, net, as described below, and partially mitigate the transactional effects of foreign currency and inflation included in income tax (expense) benefit for sempra mexico's consolidated entities and in equity earnings for sempra mexico's equity method investments. we also utilize foreign currency derivatives to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the peruvian sol related to the sale of our operations in peru. we discuss policies governing our risk management below in item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. other income, net, increased by $19 million (33%) to $77 million in 2019 primarily due to: $61 million investment gains in 2019 compared to $6 million investment losses in 2018 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; and $54 million higher net gains from interest rate and foreign exchange instruments and foreign currency transactions primarily due to: $37 million higher gains in 2019 on foreign currency derivatives as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso, and $30 million foreign currency gains in 2019 compared to $3 million foreign currency losses in 2018 on a mexican peso-denominated loan to img jv, which is offset in equity earnings, offset by $15 million losses in 2019 on foreign currency derivatives used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in the peruvian sol related to the sale of our operations in peru; offset by $97 million higher non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2019, including $14 million at sdg&amp;e and $62 million at socalgas. in 2018 compared to 2017 , other income, net, decreased by $162 million to $58 million primarily due to: $70 million decrease in equity-related afudc mainly from completion of pipeline projects at sempra mexico in 2017; $6 million investment losses in 2018 compared to $56 million investment gains in 2017 on dedicated assets in support of our executive retirement and deferred compensation plans; $15 million higher non-service component of net periodic benefit cost in 2018, including $10 million at sdg&amp;e and $5 million at socalgas; and $13 million lower net gains from interest rate and foreign exchange instruments and foreign currency transactions primarily due to: $46 million lower gains in 2018 on foreign currency derivatives as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso, offset by $32 million lower losses in 2018 on a mexican peso-denominated loan to img jv, which is offset in equity earnings. we provide further details of the components of other income, net, in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 68 income taxes the table below shows the income tax expense (benefit) and etrs for sempra energy consolidated, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. income tax expense (benefit) and effective income tax rates (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 sempra energy consolidated: income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations $ 315 $ (49 ) $ 938 income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity earnings $ 1,734 $ 714 $ 1,248 equity earnings (losses), before income tax (1) 30 (236 ) 34 pretax income $ 1,764 $ 478 $ 1,282 effective income tax rate 18 % (10 )% 73 % sdg&amp;e: income tax expense $ 171 $ 173 $ 155 income before income taxes $ 945 $ 849 $ 576 effective income tax rate 18 % 20 % 27 % socalgas: income tax expense $ 120 $ 92 $ 160 income before income taxes $ 762 $ 493 $ 557 effective income tax rate 16 % 19 % 29 % (1) we discuss how we recognize equity earnings in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in december 2017, the tcja was signed into law. we recorded the effects of the tcja in 2017 using our best estimates and the information available to us through the date those financial statements were issued. in 2018, we adjusted our 2017 provisional estimates and completed our accounting for the income tax effects of the tcja. to the extent we intend to repatriate cash to the u.s., we have accrued incremental deferred income tax. we discuss the tcja and our indefinite reinvestment assertion further in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sempra energy consolidated sempra energy's income tax expense in 2019 compared to an income tax benefit in 2018 was due to higher pretax income and a higher etr. pretax income in 2018 was impacted by the impairments at our sempra lng and sempra renewables segments offset by the gain from sale of assets at sempra renewables. the change in etr was primarily due to: $131 million income tax benefit in 2018 resulting from the reduced outside basis difference in sempra lng as a result of the impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets; and $45 million higher income tax expense in 2019 from foreign currency and inflation effects primarily as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso; offset by $69 million total income tax benefits from the release of regulatory liabilities at sdg&amp;e and socalgas established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the cpuc directed be allocated to shareholders in a january 2019 decision; $41 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional estimates recorded in 2017 for the effects of tax reform; $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation; and $10 million income tax benefit in 2019 from a reduction in a valuation allowance against certain nol carryforwards as a result of our decision to sell our south american businesses. sempra energy's income tax benefit in 2018 compared to an income tax expense in 2017 was due to a lower etr and lower pretax income. pretax income in 2017 was impacted by the write-off of sdg&amp;e's wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $619 million income tax expense in 2017 from the effects of the tcja, as follows: $437 million related to future repatriation of foreign earnings, including $328 million of u.s. federal income tax expense pertaining to the deemed repatriation tax and $109 million u.s. state and non-u.s. withholding tax expense on our expected future repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings estimated for deemed repatriation, and $182 million from remeasurement of our u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35% to 21%; 69 $131 million income tax benefit in 2018 resulting from the reduced outside basis difference in sempra lng as a result of the impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets; $98 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; and $38 million lower income tax expense from foreign currency and inflation effects, as a result of fluctuation of the mexican peso; offset by $41 million income tax expense in 2018 to adjust provisional estimates recorded in 2017 for the effects of tax reform; $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. we report as part of our pretax results the income or loss attributable to nci. however, we do not record income taxes for a portion of this income or loss, as some of our entities with nci are currently treated as partnerships for income tax purposes, and thus we are only liable for income taxes on the portion of the earnings that are allocated to us. our pretax income, however, includes 100% of these entities. as our entities with nci grow, and as we may continue to invest in such entities, the impact on our etr may become more significant. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's income tax expense decreased in 2019 due to a lower etr partially offset by higher pretax income. the change in etr was primarily due to a $31 million income tax benefit from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the cpuc directed be allocated to shareholders in a january 2019 decision. sdg&amp;e's income tax expense increased in 2018 compared to 2017 due to higher pretax income partially offset by a lower etr. the pretax income in 2017 included the $351 million ($208 million after tax) write-off of the wildfire regulatory asset. the lower etr was primarily due to: $119 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; and $28 million deferred income tax expense in 2017 from remeasurement of u.s. federal deferred income tax balances from 35% to 21%, primarily from the deferred income tax asset relating to the impairment of the songs steam generator replacement project in prior years; offset by $19 million lower income tax benefit in 2018 from the resolution of prior years' income tax items; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. socalgas socalgas' income tax expense increased in 2019 due to higher pretax income partially offset by a lower etr. the change in etr was primarily due to: $38 million income tax benefit from the release of a regulatory liability established in connection with 2017 tax reform for excess deferred income tax balances that the cpuc directed be allocated to shareholders in a january 2019 decision; and $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation. socalgas' income tax expense decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 due to lower pretax income and a lower etr. the lower etr was primarily due to: $69 million lower income tax expense from the lower u.s. statutory corporate federal income tax rate in 2018; offset by $21 million income tax expense in 2018 associated with aliso canyon natural gas storage facility litigation; and lower income tax benefits from flow-through deductions in 2018. equity earnings equity earnings increased by $405 million to $580 million in 2019 primarily due to: $174 million increase at sempra renewables, including $200 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain wind equity method investments in 2018; $155 million higher equity earnings, net of income tax, from our investment in oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018; $65 million impairment of our rbs sempra commodities equity method investment in 2018; and $24 million higher equity earnings from cameron lng jv including: 70 $50 million increase primarily due to train 1 commencing commercial operation under its tolling agreements in august 2019, offset by $26 million decrease due to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and associated fees related to the jv's debt refinancing; offset by $20 million lower equity earnings, net of income tax, from img jv, including $30 million foreign currency losses in 2019 compared to $3 million foreign currency gains in 2018 on its me xican p eso-denominated loans from its jv owners, which is fully offset in other income, net. equity earnings increased by $103 million to $175 million in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to: $371 million equity earnings, net of income tax, from our investment in oncor holdings, which we acquired in march 2018; offset by $200 million other-than-temporary impairment of certain wind equity method investments at sempra renewables in 2018; $65 million impairment of our rbs sempra commodities equity method investment in 2018; and $16 million lower equity earnings, net of income tax, from img jv, including $32 million lower foreign currency gains in 2018 on its mexican peso-denominated loans from its jv owners, which is fully offset in other income, net. earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests earnings attributable to nci were $164 million for 2019 compared to $76 million for 2018 . the net change of $88 million included: $1 million earnings attributable to nci at sempra renewables in 2019 compared to $58 million losses in 2018 primarily due to the sales of our tax equity investments in december 2018 and april 2019; and $36 million losses attributable to nci at sempra lng in 2018 due to the net impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets. earnings attributable to nci were $76 million for 2018 compared to $94 million for 2017 . the net change of $18 million included: $36 million losses attributable to nci at sempra lng in 2018 due to the net impairment of certain non-utility natural gas storage assets; and $35 million higher pretax losses attributed to tax equity investors at sempra renewables; offset by $59 million higher earnings attributable to nci at sempra mexico in 2018. mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends mandatory convertible preferred stock dividends increased by $17 million (14%) to $142 million in 2019 primarily due to dividends associated with our series b preferred stock, which were issued in july 2018. in 2018, our board of directors declared dividends of $105 million and $20 million, respectively, on our series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock. impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations because operations in south america and our natural gas distribution utility in mexico use their local currency as their functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at average exchange rates for the period for consolidation in sempra energy consolidated's results of operations. foreign currency translation any difference in average exchange rates used for the translation of income statement activity from year to year can cause a variance in sempra energy's comparative results of operations. changes in foreign currency translation rates between years resulted in $8 million lower earnings within discontinued operations in 2019 compared to 2018 and a negligible impact in 2018 compared to 2017. 71 transactional impacts income statement activities at our foreign operations and their jvs are also impacted by transactional gains and losses. a summary of these foreign currency transactional gains and losses included in our reported results is shown in the table below: transactional gains (losses) from foreign currency and inflation (dollars in millions) total reported amounts transactional gains (losses) included in reported amounts years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 other income, net $ 77 $ 58 $ 220 $ 55 $ (1 ) $ 16 income tax (expense) benefit (315 ) 49 (938 ) (71 ) (26 ) (64 ) equity earnings 580 175 72 (47 ) (14 ) 12 income from continuing operations, net of income tax 1,999 938 382 (70 ) (41 ) (55 ) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income tax 363 188 (31 ) 2 6 2 earnings attributable to common shares 2,055 924 256 (39 ) (21 ) (25 ) foreign currency exchange rate and inflation impacts on income taxes and related hedging activity our mexican subsidiaries have u.s. dollar-denominated cash balances, receivables, payables and debt (monetary assets and liabilities) that are affected by mexican currency exchange rate movements for mexican income tax purposes. they also have deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are significant, denominated in the mexican peso that must be translated to u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. in addition, monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. as a result, fluctuations in both the currency exchange rate for the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar and mexican inflation may expose us to fluctuations in income tax expense, other income, net and equity earnings. we use foreign currency derivatives as a means to manage exposure to the currency exchange rate on our monetary assets and liabilities. however, we generally do not hedge our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which makes us susceptible to volatility in income tax expense caused by exchange rate fluctuations and inflation. the derivative activity impacts other income, net. we also utilize foreign currency derivatives to hedge exposure to fluctuation in the peruvian sol related to the sale of our operations in peru in discontinued operations. other transactions although the financial statements of most of our mexican subsidiaries and jvs have the u.s. dollar as the functional currency, some transactions may be denominated in the local currency; such transactions are remeasured into u.s. dollars. this remeasurement creates transactional gains and losses that are included in other income, net, for our consolidated subsidiaries and in equity earnings for our jvs. we utilize cross-currency swaps that exchange our mexican peso-denominated principal and interest payments into the u.s. dollar and swap mexican variable interest rates for u.s. fixed interest rates. the impacts of these cross-currency swaps are offset in oci and are reclassified from aoci into earnings through other income, net and interest expense as settlements occur. certain of our mexican pipeline projects (namely los ramones i at ienova pipelines and los ramones norte within our tag jv) generate revenue based on tariffs that are set by government agencies in mexico, with contracts denominated in mexican pesos that are indexed to the u.s. dollar, adjusted annually for inflation and fluctuation in the exchange rate. the resultant gains and losses from remeasuring the local currency amounts into u.s. dollars and the settlement of foreign currency forwards and swaps related to these contracts are included in revenues: energy-related businesses or equity earnings. capital resources and liquidity overview 72 we expect to meet our cash requirements through cash flows from operations, unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, proceeds from recent and planned asset sales, borrowings under our credit facilities, distributions from our equity method investments, issuances of debt and equity securities, project financing and other equity sales, including partnering in jvs. we believe that these cash flow sources, combined with available funds, will be adequate to fund our current operations, including to: finance capital expenditures meet liquidity requirements fund dividends fund new business or asset acquisitions or start-ups fund capital contribution requirements repay maturing long-term debt fund expenditures related to the natural gas leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility sempra energy and the california utilities currently have ready access to the long-term debt markets and are not currently constrained in their ability to borrow at reasonable rates. however, changing economic conditions, our financing activities and actions by credit rating agencies, as well as many other factors, could negatively affect the availability and cost of both short-term and long-term financing. also, cash flows from operations may be impacted by the timing of commencement and completion and, potentially, cost overruns of large projects. if cash flows from operations were to be significantly reduced or we were unable to borrow under acceptable terms, we would likely first reduce or postpone discretionary capital expenditures (not related to safety) and investments in new businesses. we monitor our ability to finance the needs of our operating, investing and financing activities in a manner consistent with our intention to maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure. we have significant investments in several trusts to provide for future payments of pensions and other postretirement benefits, and nuclear decommissioning. changes in asset values, which are dependent on the activity in the equity and fixed income markets, have not affected the trust funds' abilities to make required payments. however, changes in asset values, along with a number of other factors such as changes to discount rates, assumed rates of return, mortality tables, and regulations, may impact funding requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit plans and sdg&amp;e's ndt. at the california utilities, funding requirements are generally recoverable in rates. available funds our lines of credit provide liquidity and support commercial paper. as we discuss in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, sempra energy, sempra global, sdg&amp;e and socalgas each have five-year revolving credit agreements expiring in 2024. these credit agreements replaced the credit agreements that were set to expire in 2020. the table below shows the amount of available funds at december 31, 2019, including available unused credit on these primary u.s. credit facilities. in addition, ienova has $1.9 billion in lines of credit, with approximately $706 million available unused credit at december 31, 2019 . available funds at december 31, 2019 (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (1) $ 108 $ 10 $ 10 available unused credit (2)(3) 4,351 1,420 120 (1) amounts at sempra energy consolidated include $60 million held in non-u.s. jurisdictions. we discuss repatriation in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements . (2) available unused credit is the total available on sempra energy's, sempra global's, sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' credit facilities that we discuss in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. (3) because the commercial paper programs are supported by these lines, we reflect the amount of commercial paper outstanding as a reduction to the available unused credit. short-term borrowings we use short-term debt primarily to meet liquidity requirements, fund shareholder dividends, and temporarily finance capital expenditures, acquisitions or start-ups. our corporate short-term, unsecured promissory notes, or commercial paper, were our primary sources of short-term debt funding in 2019 . our california utilities use short-term debt primarily to meet working capital needs. the following table shows selected statistics for our commercial paper borrowings for 2019 : 73 commercial paper statistics (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas amount outstanding at december 31, 2019 $ 2,334 $ 80 $ 630 weighted-average interest rate at december 31, 2019 2.062 % 1.965 % 1.864 % maximum month-end amount outstanding during 2019 (1) $ 3,061 $ 405 $ 630 monthly weighted-average amount outstanding during 2019 $ 2,243 $ 127 $ 196 monthly weighted-average interest rate during 2019 2.618 % 2.736 % 2.165 % (1) the largest amount outstanding at the end of the last day of any month during the year. credit ratings the credit ratings of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas remained at investment grade levels in 2019. credit ratings at december 31, 2019 sempra energy sdg&amp;e socalgas moody's baa1 with a negative outlook baa1 with a positive outlook a1 with a negative outlook s&amp;p bbb+ with a negative outlook bbb+ with a stable outlook a with a negative outlook fitch bbb+ with a stable outlook bbb+ with a stable outlook a with a stable outlook a downgrade of sempra energy's or any of its subsidiaries' credit ratings or rating outlooks may result in a requirement for collateral to be posted in the case of certain financing arrangements and may materially and adversely affect the market prices of their equity and debt securities, the rates at which borrowings are made and commercial paper is issued, and the various fees on their outstanding credit facilities. this could make it more costly for sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas and sempra energy's other subsidiaries to issue debt securities, to borrow under credit facilities and to raise certain other types of financing. we provide additional information about our credit ratings at sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas in item 1a. risk factors. sempra energy has agreed that, if the credit rating of oncor's senior secured debt by any of the three major rating agencies falls below bbb (or the equivalent), oncor will suspend dividends and other distributions (except for contractual tax payments), unless otherwise allowed by the puct. oncor's senior secured debt was rated a2, a+ and a at moody's, s&amp;p and fitch, respectively, at december 31, 2019 . sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas have committed lines of credit to provide liquidity and to support commercial paper. borrowings under these facilities bear interest at benchmark rates plus a margin that varies with market index rates and each borrower's credit rating. each facility also requires a commitment fee on available unused credit that may be impacted by each borrower's credit rating. depending on the severity of the downgrade: if sempra energy were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 to 50 bps. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 to 10 bps. if sdg&amp;e were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 25 to 50 bps. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 5 to 10 bps. if socalgas were to experience a ratings downgrade from its current level, the rate at which borrowings bear interest would increase by 12.5 to 25 bps. the commitment fee on available unused credit would also increase 2.5 to 5 bps. sempra energy's and sdg&amp;e's credit ratings also may affect their respective credit limits related to derivative instruments, as we discuss in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. loans to/from affiliates at december 31, 2019 , sempra energy had a $742 million loan to an unconsolidated affiliate and $195 million of loans from unconsolidated affiliates. 74 california utilities sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' operations have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. their future performance will depend primarily on the ratemaking and regulatory process, environmental regulations, economic conditions, actions by the california legislature and the changing energy marketplace. from 2020 through 2024, sdg&amp;e expects to make capital expenditures of approximately $8.9 billion and socalgas expects to make capital expenditures of approximately $9.0 billion for transmission and distribution improvements, including pipeline and wildfire safety. these amounts are estimates and the actual amounts of capital expenditures may differ, perhaps substantially. sdg&amp;e and socalgas expect that the available unused credit from their credit facilities described above, cash flows from operations, and debt issuances will continue to be adequate to fund their respective operations and capital expenditures. the california utilities manage their capital structure and pay dividends when appropriate and as approved by their respective boards of directors. as we discuss in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, changes in balancing accounts for significant costs at sdg&amp;e and socalgas, particularly a change between over- and undercollected status, including commodity and transportation balancing accounts, may have a significant impact on cash flows. these changes generally represent the difference between when costs are incurred and when they are ultimately recovered in rates through billings to customers. sdg&amp;e wildfire fund on july 12, 2019, the governor of california signed into law the wildfire legislation, which addresses certain important issues related to catastrophic wildfires in the state of california and their impact on electric ious. we describe the wildfire legislation and related accounting treatment in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the wildfire legislation established the wildfire fund to provide liquidity to sdg&amp;e, pg&amp;e and edison to pay iou wildfire-related claims in the event that the governmental agency responsible for determining causation determines the applicable iou's equipment caused the ignition of a wildfire, the primary insurance coverage is exceeded and certain other conditions are satisfied. the primary purpose of the wildfire fund is to pool resources provided by shareholders and ratepayers of the ious and make those resources available to reimburse the ious for third-party wildfire claims incurred after july 12, 2019, the effective date of the wildfire legislation, subject to certain limitations. sdg&amp;e recorded a wildfire fund asset for committed shareholder contributions to the wildfire fund. sdg&amp;e is exposed to the risk that any california electric iou may incur third-party wildfire claims for which they will seek recovery from the wildfire fund. in such a situation, sdg&amp;e may recognize a reduction of its wildfire fund asset and record a charge against earnings in the period when there is a reduction of the available coverage due to recoverable claims from the ious. as a result, if any california electric iou's equipment is determined to be a cause of a fire, it could have a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's financial condition and results of operation up to the carrying value of our wildfire fund asset. in addition, the wildfire fund could be completely exhausted due to fires in the other california electric ious' service territories, by fires in sdg&amp;e's service territory or by a combination thereof. in the event that the wildfire fund is materially diminished, exhausted or terminated, sdg&amp;e will lose the protection afforded by the wildfire fund, and as a consequence, a fire in sdg&amp;e's service territory could cause a material adverse effect on sdg&amp;e's and sempra energy's cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. socalgas socalgas' performance will also depend on the resolution of legal, regulatory and other matters concerning the leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility, which we discuss below, in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, and in item 1a. risk factors. aliso canyon natural gas storage facility gas leak in october 2015, socalgas discovered a leak at one of its injection-and-withdrawal wells, ss25, at its aliso canyon natural gas storage facility located in los angeles county. in february 2016, calgem confirmed that the well was permanently sealed. see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for discussions of civil and criminal litigation and regulatory proceedings. cost estimates, accounting impacts and insurance. at december 31, 2019, socalgas estimates its costs related to the leak are $1,116 million (the cost estimate). this estimate may rise significantly as more information becomes available. approximately 75 51% of the cost estimate is for the temporary relocation program (including cleaning costs and certain labor costs). a substantial portion of the cost estimate has been paid, and $9 million is accrued as reserve for aliso canyon costs and $7 million is accrued in deferred credits and other as of december 31, 2019 on socalgas' and sempra energy's consolidated balance sheets. except for the amounts paid or estimated to settle certain actions, the cost estimate does not include litigation or regulatory costs as it is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the costs to defend or resolve the actions or the amount of damages, restitution, or civil, administrative or criminal fines, sanctions, penalties or other costs or remedies that may be imposed or incurred, which could be significant. the cost estimate also does not include certain other costs incurred by sempra energy associated with defending against shareholder derivative lawsuits and other potential costs that we currently do not anticipate incurring or that we cannot reasonably estimate. excluding directors' and officers' liability insurance, we have at least four kinds of insurance policies that together we estimate provide between $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion in insurance coverage, depending on the nature of the claims. we have received insurance payments for many of the costs, including temporary relocation and associated processing costs, control-of-well expenses, costs of the government-ordered response to the leak, legal costs and lost gas. we intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage for the costs we have incurred or may incur. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional insurance recovery for these costs. if any costs are not covered by insurance (including any costs in excess of applicable policy limits), if there are significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, or if the insurance recoveries are subject to income taxes while the associated costs are not tax deductible, such amounts could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, we recorded the expected recovery of the cost estimate related to the leak of $339 million as insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs on socalgas' and sempra energy's consolidated balance sheets. this amount is net of insurance retentions and $747 million of insurance proceeds we received through december 31, 2019. if we were to conclude that this receivable or a portion of it is no longer probable of recovery from insurers, some or all of this receivable would be charged against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. natural gas storage operations and reliability. natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for service reliability during peak demand periods, including peak electric generation needs in the summer and heating needs in the winter. the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility is the largest socalgas storage facility and an important element of socalgas' delivery system. as a result of the leak, socalgas suspended injection of natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility beginning in october 2015 and, following a comprehensive safety review and authorization by calgem and the cpuc's executive director, resumed limited injection operations in july 2017. during the suspension period, socalgas advised the california iso, cec, cpuc and phmsa of its concerns that the inability to inject natural gas into the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility posed a risk to energy reliability in southern california. the cpuc has issued a series of directives to socalgas specifying the range of working gas to be maintained in the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility as well as protocols for the withdrawal of gas, to help ensure safe and reliable natural gas service, while helping to maintain stable energy prices in southern california. limited withdrawals of natural gas from the facility were made in 2018 and 2019 to augment natural gas supplies during critical demand periods. if the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility were to be permanently closed, or if future cash flows were otherwise insufficient to recover its carrying value, it could result in an impairment of the facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures, and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. at december 31, 2019, the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility had a net book value of $769 million . any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by socalgas may not be recoverable in customer rates, and socalgas' and sempra energy's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 76 sempra texas utilities oncor's business is capital intensive, and it relies on external financing as a significant source of liquidity for its capital requirements. from 2020 through 2024, oncor expects to make capital expenditures of approximately $11.9 billion to meet the projected growth within its service territory, of which approximately $9.5 billion represents our proportionate ownership share. we expect oncor will fund approximately $8.8 billion of these capital expenditures and sempra energy will fund approximately $0.7 billion through capital contributions to oncor. these amounts are estimates and the actual amounts of capital expenditures and investments may differ, perhaps substantially. in the past, oncor has financed a substantial portion of its cash needs from operations and with proceeds from indebtedness. in the event that oncor fails to meet its capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to oncor, or if oncor is unable to access sufficient capital to finance its ongoing needs, we may elect to make additional capital contributions to oncor which could be substantial and which would reduce the cash available to us for other purposes, could increase our indebtedness and could ultimately materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. in that regard, our commitments to the puct prohibit us from making loans to oncor. as a result, if oncor requires additional financing and cannot obtain it from other sources, we may elect to make a capital contribution to oncor. oncor's ability to pay dividends may be limited by factors such as its credit ratings, regulatory capital requirements, debt-to-equity ratio approved by the puct and other restrictions. in addition, oncor will not pay dividends if a majority of oncor's independent directors or any minority member director determines it is in the best interests of oncor to retain such amounts to meet expected future requirements. sempra mexico sempra mexico is currently building terminals for the receipt, storage, and delivery of liquid fuels in the new port of veracruz and vicinity of mexico city, puebla, topolobampo, manzanillo, and ensenada. sempra mexico is also developing new solar facilities in ju rez, chihuahua, and benjamin hill, sonora, through which it will supply renewable energy to several private companies. we expect the projects to commence commercial operation on various dates in 2020 and 2021. from 2020 through 2024, sempra mexico and its unconsolidated jv's expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $2.0 billion, which represents our proportionate ownership share before nci. we expect sempra mexico's unconsolidated jv's will fund approximately $0.1 billion of these capital expenditures, which represents our proportionate ownership share, and sempra mexico will fund approximately $1.9 billion. these amounts are estimates and the actual amounts of capital expenditures and investments may differ, perhaps substantially. we expect to fund these capital expenditures and investments, operations and dividends at ienova with available funds, including credit facilities, and funds internally generated by the sempra mexico businesses, as well as funds from project financing, sales of securities, interim funding from the parent or affiliates, and partnering in jvs. in 2019, 2018 and 2017, ienova paid dividends of $73 million, $71 million and $67 million, respectively, to its minority shareholders. ienova's shareholders approved ienova's repurchases of its own shares up to a maximum amount of $250 million. repurchases shall not exceed ienova's total net profits, including retained earnings, as stated in its financial statements. in 2019, ienova repurchased 2,620,000 shares of its outstanding common stock held by nci for approximately $10 million , resulting in an increase in sempra energy's ownership interest in ienova from 66.5% to 66.6% as of december 31, 2019. as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, ienova has received force majeure payments for the guaymas-el oro segment of the sonora pipeline from august 2017 to august 2019, after damage to that segment of the pipeline made it inoperable and a court order prevented repairs to put the pipeline back in service. in july 2019, the cfe filed a request for arbitration generally to nullify certain contract terms that provide for fixed capacity payments in instances of force majeure and made a demand for substantial damages in connection with the force majeure event. in september 2019, the arbitration process ended when ienova and the cfe reached an agreement to modify the tariff structure and extend the term of the contract for 10 years. under the revised agreement, the cfe will resume making payments only when the damaged section of the guaymas-el oro segment of the sonora pipeline is repaired. if the pipeline is not repaired by may 15, 2020 and the parties do not agree on a new service start date, ienova retains the right to terminate the contract and seek to recover its reasonable and documented costs and lost profits. if ienova is unable to make such repairs (which have not commenced) and resume operations in the guaymas-el oro segment of the sonora pipeline or if ienova terminates the contract and is unable to obtain recovery, there may be a material adverse impact on sempra energy's results of operations and cash flows and our ability to recover the carrying value of our investment. the ability to successfully complete major construction projects is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. for a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see item 1a. risk factors. 77 sempra lng sempra lng develops and builds natural gas liquefaction facilities and is pursuing the development of five strategically located lng projects in north america with a long-term goal of delivering natural gas to the largest world markets. we expect sempra lng to require funding for the development and expansion of its portfolio of projects, which may be financed through a combination of operating cash flow, funding from the parent, project financing and partnering in jvs , including its jv partnership with ienova in eca lng jv. from 2020 through 2024, sempra lng and its unconsolidated jv expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $2.4 billion, which represents our proportionate ownership share before nci. we expect sempra lng's unconsolidated jv will fund approximately $0.1 billion of these capital expenditures, which represents our proportionate ownership share, and sempra lng will fund approximately $2.3 billion. these amounts are estimates and the actual amounts of capital expenditures and investments may differ, perhaps substantially. these capital expenditures are primarily for construction of the proposed mid-scale liquefaction project at eca lng jv, which we discuss below. north american natural gas prices, when in decline, negatively affect profitability at sempra lng. also, a reduction in projected global demand for lng could result in increased competition among those developing projects in an environment of declining lng demand, such as the sempra energy-sponsored lng export initiatives. for a discussion of these risks and other risks involving changing commodity prices, see item 1a. risk factors. cameron lng jv three-train liquefaction project sempra lng, through its interest in cameron lng jv, is constructing a three-train natural gas liquefaction export facility with an expected export capability of 12 mtpa of lng. construction on the three-train liquefaction project began in the second half of 2014 under an epc contract with a jv between cb&amp;i, llc (as assignee of cb&amp;i shaw constructors, inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of mcdermott international, inc., and chiyoda international corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of chiyoda corporation. the majority of the construction is project-financed at the jv, with most or all of the remainder of the capital requirements provided by the project partners, including sempra energy, through equity contributions under the project equity agreements. we expect that our remaining equity requirements to complete the project will be met by a combination of our share of cash generated from each liquefaction train as it comes on line and, if required, additional cash contributions. sempra energy signed guarantees for 50.2% of cameron lng jv's financing obligations for a maximum amount of up to $4.0 billion. the guarantees will terminate upon satisfaction of certain conditions, including all three trains achieving financial completion by september 30, 2021 (with up to an additional 365 days extension beyond such date permitted in cases of force majeure). however, if cameron lng jv fails to satisfy the financial completion criteria, a demand could be made under the guarantee for sempra energy's 50.2% of cameron lng jv's obligations under the financing arrangements then due and payable. in august 2019, commercial operation of train 1 commenced under cameron lng jv's tolling agreements. in february 2020, train 2 reached substantial completion and we expect to commence commercial operation in the coming days. based on a number of factors, we believe it is reasonable to expect train 3 will commence commercial operation in the third quarter of 2020. these factors include, among others, the epc contractor's progress to date, the current commissioning activities, the remaining work to be performed, the project schedules received from the epc contractor, cameron lng jv's own review of the project schedules, the assumptions underlying such schedules, and the inherent risks in constructing and testing facilities such as the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility. large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the cameron lng jv liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering challenges, severe weather events, substantial construction delays and increased costs. in addition, once completed, the facility may be subject to design flaws, equipment failures and other operational issues, which could cause the facility to suspend operations or operate at a reduced capacity. cameron lng jv has a lump-sum, turnkey epc contract, and if the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the epc contract, the project could face substantial construction delays and potentially significantly increased costs. in january 2020, mcdermott international, inc. filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. mcdermott international, inc. has stated that it expects all of its projects, including the three-train liquefaction project at cameron lng jv, to continue on an uninterrupted basis. however, we cannot be certain the cameron lng jv project will not be interrupted. if the contractor defaults under the epc contract due to the bankruptcy of mcdermott international, inc. or for any other reason, such default could result in cameron lng jv's engagement of a substitute contractor. the inability to complete the project in a timely manner or within our current expectations, cost overruns, and the other risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, credit ratings and/or prospects. 78 for a discussion of our investment in cameron lng jv, jv financing, sempra energy guarantees, the risks discussed above and other risks relating to the development of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project that could adversely affect our future performance, see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and item 1a. risk factors. proposed cameron liquefaction expansion cameron lng jv has received the major permits and fta and non-fta approvals necessary to expand the current configuration of the cameron lng jv liquefaction project from the current three liquefaction trains under construction. the proposed expansion project includes up to two additional liquefaction trains and up to two additional full containment lng storage tanks (one of which was permitted with the original three-train project). expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the jv project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. under the cameron lng jv equity agreements, the expansion of the project requires the unanimous consent of all the partners, including with respect to the equity investment obligation of each partner. discussions among all the cameron lng jv partners have been taking place regarding how an expansion may be structured and we expect that discussions will continue. there can be no assurance that a mutually agreeable expansion structure will be agreed upon unanimously by the cameron lng jv members, which if not accomplished in a timely manner, could materially and adversely impact the development of the expansion project. in light of this, we are unable to predict whether or when cameron lng jv might be able to move forward on expansion of the cameron lng liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains. in november 2018, sempra energy and total s.a. entered into an mou that provides a framework for cooperation for the development of the potential cameron lng expansion project and the potential eca lng jv liquefaction-export project that we describe below in eca lng jv liquefaction project. the mou contemplates total s.a. potentially contracting for up to approximately 9 mtpa of lng offtake across these two development projects and provides total s.a. the option to acquire an equity interest in the proposed eca lng jv project. in addition, in october 2019, sempra energy and mitsui &amp; co., ltd. entered into an mou that provides a framework for potential offtake by mitsui &amp; co., ltd. from the potential cameron lng expansion project and the second phase of the potential eca lng jv project, as well as mitsui &amp; co., ltd.'s potential acquisition of an equity interest in the second phase of the potential eca lng jv project. the ultimate participation of total s.a. and mitsui &amp; co., ltd. remains subject to negotiation and finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors, and total s.a. and mitsui &amp; co., ltd. have no commitment to participate in the projects. eca lng jv liquefaction project through a jv agreement, sempra lng and ienova are developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project at ienova's existing eca lng regasification terminal. the proposed liquefaction facility project, which is planned for development in two phases (a mid-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 1 and a large-scale project referred to as eca lng jv phase 2), is being developed to provide buyers with direct access to west coast lng supplies. the eca lng regasification facility currently has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100% of the regasification facility's capacity through 2028, making the decisions on whether and how to pursue the eca lng jv phase 2 liquefaction project dependent in part on whether the investment in a large-scale liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial financially than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts. in march 2019, eca lng jv received two authorizations from the doe to export u.s.-produced natural gas to mexico and to re-export lng to non-fta countries from its eca lng jv phase 1 and eca lng jv phase 2 projects in development. in june 2018, we selected a technipfmc plc and kiewit corporation partnership as the epc contractor for eca lng jv phase 1, subject to reaching a definitive agreement. in the coming days, we expect to sign a lump-sum, turn-key epc contract with technipfmc for the engineering, procurement and construction of a one-train natural gas liquefaction export facility with a nameplate capacity of 3.25 mtpa and offtake capacity of 2.5 mtpa. if entered into, we will have no obligation to move forward on the epc contract, and we may release technipfmc to perform portions of the work pursuant to limited notices to proceed. we plan to fully release technipfmc to perform all the work to construct eca lng jv phase 1 only after we reach a final investment decision with respect to the project, which we expect to make in the first quarter of 2020, and after certain other conditions are met. kiewit corporation, which we previously expected to be part of the epc contractor jv, may be a sub-contractor to technipfmc, subject to the terms of the epc contract. the total price of the epc contract for eca lng jv phase 1 is estimated at approximately $1.5 billion. we estimate that capital expenditures for eca lng jv phase 1 will approximate $1.9 billion, including capitalized interest and project contingency. the actual cost of the epc contract and the actual amount of these capital expenditures may differ, perhaps substantially, from our estimates. 79 in november 2018, sempra lng and ienova signed heads of agreements with affiliates of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. for eca lng jv phase 1. each heads of agreement for eca lng jv phase 1 contemplates the parties negotiating definitive 20-year lng sales and purchase agreements for the purchase of approximately 0.8 mtpa of lng from the eca lng jv facility, but does not obligate the parties to ultimately execute any agreements or participate in the project. the ultimate participation of total s.a., mitsui &amp; co., ltd. and tokyo gas co., ltd. in the potential eca lng jv phase 1 project as contemplated by the heads of agreements signed in november 2018 remains subject to finalization of definitive agreements, among other factors, and none of these parties has committed to participate in this project. the development of the eca lng jv phase 1 and eca lng jv phase 2 projects is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including obtaining binding customer commitments; the receipt of a number of permits and regulatory approvals; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including definitive epc contracts, equity acquisition and governance agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with this potential investment. in addition, as we discuss in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, an unfavorable decision on certain property disputes and permit challenges could materially and adversely affect the development of these projects. for a discussion of these risks, see item 1a. risk factors. port arthur lng liquefaction project sempra lng is developing a proposed natural gas liquefaction project on a greenfield site that it owns in the vicinity of port arthur, texas, located along the sabine-neches waterway. sempra lng received authorizations from the doe in august 2015 and may 2019 that collectively permit the lng to be produced from the proposed port arthur lng project to be exported to all current and future fta and non-fta countries. in april 2019, the ferc approved the siting, construction and operation of the first phase of the proposed port arthur lng liquefaction facility, along with certain natural gas pipelines, including the louisiana connector pipeline, that could be used to supply feed gas to the liquefaction facility, assuming the project is completed. we expect to make a final investment decision in the third quarter of 2020. in june 2018, we selected bechtel as the epc contractor for the proposed port arthur lng liquefaction project, subject to reaching a definitive agreement. we are in the final stages of negotiating and finalizing a definitive epc contract for the project. if we execute the epc contract, we will have no obligation to move forward on the epc contract, and we may release bechtel to perform portions of the work pursuant to limited notices to proceed. we plan to fully release bechtel to perform all the work to construct the port arthur lng liquefaction project only after we reach a final investment decision with respect to the project and after certain other conditions are met, including project financing. the potential epc contract contemplates the construction of two liquefaction trains with a total nameplate capacity of 13.5 mtpa and a total offtake capacity of approximately 10 mtpa. in december 2018, polish oil &amp; gas company (pgnig) and port arthur lng entered into a definitive 20-year agreement for the sale and purchase of 2 mtpa of lng per year from the port arthur lng liquefaction project. under the agreement, lng purchases by pgnig from port arthur lng will be made on a free-on-board basis, with pgnig responsible for shipping the lng from the port arthur facility to the final destination. port arthur lng will manage the gas pipeline transportation, liquefaction processing and cargo loading. the agreement is subject to certain conditions precedent, including port arthur lng making a positive final investment decision within certain agreed timelines. the failure of these conditions precedent to be satisfied or waived within the agreed timelines can result in the termination of the agreement. in may 2019, aramco services company and sempra lng signed a heads of agreement for the negotiation and finalization of a definitive 20-year lng sale and purchase agreement for 5 mtpa of lng offtake. the heads of agreement also includes the negotiation and finalization of a 25% equity investment in the project. in january 2020, aramco services company and sempra lng signed an interim project participation agreement, which sets forth certain mechanisms for the parties to work towards receipt of corporate approvals to enter into and proceed with the transaction, execution of the transaction agreements and the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions precedent contemplated by these agreements, making a final investment decision and other pre-final investment decision activities. the heads of agreement and interim project participation agreement do not obligate the parties to ultimately execute any agreements or participate in the project. in february 2020, sempra lng filed a ferc application for the siting, construction and operation of a second phase at the proposed port arthur lng facility, including the potential addition of two liquefaction trains. in november 2019, port arthur lng commenced the relocation and upgrade of approximately three miles of highway where the port arthur lng liquefaction project would be located. development of the port arthur lng liquefaction project is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including obtaining additional customer commitments; completing the required commercial agreements, such as equity acquisitions and governance 80 agreements, lng sales agreements and gas supply and transportation agreements; completing construction contracts; securing all necessary permits and approvals; obtaining financing and incentives; reaching a final investment decision; and other factors associated with the potential investment. for a discussion of these risks, see item 1a. risk factors. discontinued operations as we discuss in note 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in january 2019, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our south american businesses. in september 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our equity interests in our peruvian businesses for an aggregate base purchase price of $3.59 billion, subject to customary closing adjustments for working capital and changes in net indebtedness. in october 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our equity interests in our chilean businesses for an aggregate base purchase price of $2.23 billion, subject to customary adjustments for working capital and changes in net indebtedness and other adjustments. we expect the sales to close in the first half of 2020. our utilities in south america have historically provided relatively stable earnings and liquidity. we intend to use the proceeds from the sales to focus on capital investment in north america to support additional growth opportunities and strengthen our balance sheet by reducing debt. we expect the cash provided by earnings from our capital investment will exceed the absence of cash flows from these discontinued operations. however, there can be no assurance that we will derive these anticipated benefits. further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to redeploy the capital that we obtain from such sales, if completed, in a way that would result in cash flows or earnings exceeding those historically generated by these businesses. sources and uses of cash the following tables include only significant changes in cash flow activities for each of our registrants. 81 cash flows from operating activities (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2019 $ 3,088 $ 1,090 $ 868 2018 3,516 1,584 1,013 change $ (428 ) $ (494 ) $ (145 ) change in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts in regulatory assets) $ (513 ) $ (254 ) $ (259 ) sdg&amp;e's initial shareholder contribution to the wildfire fund in september 2019 (323 ) (323 ) change in income taxes receivable/payable, net, primarily due to higher payments (254 ) (149 ) (170 ) net decrease in reserve for aliso canyon costs due to $119 higher payments and $81 lower accruals (200 ) (200 ) deferred revenue due to the tcja at the california utilities in 2018 (123 ) (62 ) (61 ) cash payments for operating leases in 2019 (101 ) (33 ) (27 ) decrease in interest payable primarily due to higher payments (86 ) higher contributions to rabbi trust (81 ) higher net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings 442 266 336 change in intercompany activities with discontinued operations (including $334 dividends received from our south american businesses) 308 change in long-term ghg obligations 185 174 net decrease in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs due to $84 higher insurance proceeds received and $81 lower accruals 165 165 higher distributions of earnings from oncor holdings 97 change in accounts payable (78 ) lower (higher) purchases of ghg allowances 50 (43 ) other (38 ) 11 18 change in net cash flows from discontinued operations 94 $ (428 ) $ (494 ) $ (145 ) years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2018 $ 3,516 $ 1,584 $ 1,013 2017 3,625 1,547 1,306 change $ (109 ) $ 37 $ (293 ) lower net income, adjusted for noncash items included in earnings $ (344 ) $ (22 ) net increase in insurance receivable for aliso canyon costs primarily due to $203 lower insurance proceeds received and $30 higher accruals (231 ) $ (231 ) change in accounts receivable (174 ) 106 (159 ) higher purchases of ghg allowances (161 ) (81 ) (64 ) change in income taxes receivable/payable, net 166 (113 ) change in net undercollected regulatory balancing accounts (including long-term amounts in regulatory assets) 152 152 distributions of earnings from oncor holdings 149 deferred revenue due to the tcja at the california utilities in 2018 143 75 68 change in interest payable 80 change in intercompany activities with discontinued operations (including $69 dividends received from our peruvian businesses) 62 change in accounts payable (76 ) change in inventory 74 64 other (35 ) (4 ) 29 change in net cash flows from discontinued operations 10 $ (109 ) $ 37 $ (293 ) 82 cash flows from investing activities (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2019 $ (4,593 ) $ (1,522 ) $ (1,438 ) 2018 (12,470 ) (1,542 ) (1,531 ) change $ 7,877 $ 20 $ 93 acquisition of investment in oncor holdings in march 2018 $ 9,556 dividends received from peruvian businesses in discontinued operations 583 dividends received from chilean businesses in discontinued operations 394 net proceeds from sale of sempra lng's non-utility natural gas storage assets 322 lower expenditures for investments in cameron lng jv and img jv 245 lower advances to unconsolidated affiliates 79 higher contributions to oncor holdings primarily to fund oncor's purchase of infrareit in may 2019 (1,357 ) lower net proceeds from sale of certain sempra renewables' assets and investments ($569 in 2019 and $1,571 in 2018) (1,002 ) contributions to peruvian businesses in discontinued operations (583 ) contributions to chilean businesses in discontinued operations (394 ) (increase) decrease in capital expenditures (164 ) $ 20 $ 99 acquisition of investment in sharyland holdings in may 2019 (95 ) other 40 (6 ) change in net cash flows from discontinued operations 253 $ 7,877 $ 20 $ 93 years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2018 $ (12,470 ) $ (1,542 ) $ (1,531 ) 2017 (4,885 ) (1,515 ) (1,363 ) change $ (7,585 ) $ (27 ) $ (168 ) increase in expenditures for investments and acquisitions primarily for the march 2018 acquisition of investment in oncor holdings $ (9,899 ) net proceeds from the december 2018 sale of certain sempra renewables' assets and investments 1,571 lower advances to unconsolidated affiliates 410 decrease (increase) in capital expenditures 161 $ (171 ) other 1 $ (27 ) 3 change in net cash flows from discontinued operations 171 $ (7,585 ) $ (27 ) $ (168 ) 83 cash flows from financing activities (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2019 $ 1,475 $ 405 $ 562 2018 8,850 (34 ) 528 change $ (7,375 ) $ 439 $ 34 higher issuances of long-term debt in 2018, including increases at sempra energy consolidated primarily to fund the march 2018 acquisition of investment in oncor holdings and at sdg&amp;e from issuance of a new loan by omec llc to partially repay omec's project financing loan $ (4,826 ) $ (218 ) $ (600 ) net proceeds from 2018 issuances of mandatory convertible preferred stock (2,258 ) lower net proceeds from issuances of common stock primarily related to settlements of forward sale agreements (442 ) (higher) lower payments on long-term debt and finance leases (217 ) 218 494 (higher) lower dividends paid (169 ) 250 (100 ) change in intercompany activities with discontinued operations primarily related to intercompany loans (157 ) higher payments for commercial paper and other short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days (108 ) increase (decrease) in short-term debt, net 740 (249 ) 234 higher issuances of commercial paper and other short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days 195 advances from unconsolidated affiliates 155 higher capital contributions from omec llc to repay omec's loan 110 110 equity contribution from sempra energy to fund initial shareholder contribution to the wildfire fund 322 other (31 ) 6 6 change in net cash flows from discontinued operations (including $1,311 common dividends paid offset by $977 equity contributions received) (367 ) $ (7,375 ) $ 439 $ 34 years ended december 31, sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas 2018 $ 8,850 $ (34 ) $ 528 2017 1,192 (23 ) 53 change $ 7,658 $ (11 ) $ 475 higher issuances of long-term debt in 2018, including increases at sempra energy consolidated primarily to fund the march 2018 acquisition of investment in oncor holdings and at sdg&amp;e from issuance of a new loan by omec llc to partially repay omec's project financing loan $ 3,707 $ 220 $ 949 higher net proceeds from issuances of common stock in 2018 primarily related to settlements of forward sale agreements 2,225 net proceeds from 2018 issuances of mandatory convertible preferred stock 2,258 higher issuances of commercial paper and other short-term debt with maturities greater than 90 days 960 capital contribution from omec llc in 2018 to partially repay omec's project financing loan 65 decrease in short-term debt, net (215 ) higher payments on long-term debt, including $295 early repayment of omec's project financing loan by omec llc at sdg&amp;e (775 ) (306 ) (500 ) change in intercompany activities with discontinued operations related to intercompany loans (276 ) (higher) lower dividends paid (211 ) 200 lower proceeds from sale of nci (106 ) other (59 ) 25 26 change in net cash flows from discontinued operations (65 ) $ 7,658 $ (11 ) $ 475 84 expenditures for pp&amp;e we invest the majority of our capital in the california utilities, primarily for transmission and distribution improvements, including pipeline and wildfire safety. the following table summarizes by segment capital expenditures for the last three years. expenditures for pp&amp;e (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 sdg&amp;e $ 1,522 $ 1,542 $ 1,555 socalgas 1,439 1,538 1,367 sempra mexico 624 368 248 sempra renewables 2 51 497 sempra lng 112 31 20 parent and other 9 14 18 total $ 3,708 $ 3,544 $ 3,705 expenditures for investments and acquisitions in 2019 and 2018, we invested heavily in our sempra texas utilities, which included our march 2018 acquisition of oncor holdings and subsequent contributions to oncor holdings, primarily to fund oncor's purchase of infrareit in may 2019. the following table summarizes by segment our investments in various jvs, as well as business and asset acquisitions. expenditures for investments and acquisitions (1) (dollars in millions) years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 sempra texas utilities $ 1,685 $ 9,457 $ sempra mexico 100 219 sempra renewables 5 sempra lng 110 275 48 parent and other 2 331 2 total $ 1,797 $ 10,168 $ 269 (1) net of cash and cash equivalents acquired. future capital expenditures and investments the amounts and timing of capital expenditures and certain investments are generally subject to approvals by various regulatory and other governmental and environmental bodies, including the cpuc, the ferc and the puct. in 2020, we expect to make capital expenditures and investments of approximately $5.9 billion (which excludes capital expenditures that will be funded by unconsolidated entities), as summarized by segment in the following table. future capital expenditures and investments (dollars in millions) year ended december 31, 2020 sdg&amp;e $ 2,000 socalgas 2,000 sempra texas utilities 300 sempra mexico 900 sempra lng 700 total $ 5,900 we expect the majority of our capital expenditures and investments in 2020 will relate to transmission and distribution improvements at our regulated public utilities and construction of liquid fuels terminals at sempra mexico. 85 as we discuss above, from 2020 through 2024, and subject to the factors described below, which could cause these estimates to vary substantially, sempra energy expects to make aggregate capital expenditures and investments of approximately $22.8 billion (which excludes capital expenditures that will be funded by unconsolidated entities), as follows: $8.9 billion at sdg&amp;e, $9.0 billion at socalgas, $0.7 billion at sempra texas utilities and $1.9 billion at sempra mexico and $2.3 billion at sempra lng. capital expenditure amounts include capitalized interest and afudc related to debt. periodically, we review our construction, investment and financing programs and revise them in response to changes in regulation, economic conditions, competition, customer growth, inflation, customer rates, the cost and availability of capital, and safety and environmental requirements. our level of capital expenditures and investments in the next few years may vary substantially and will depend on, among other things, the cost and availability of financing, regulatory approvals, changes in u.s. federal tax law and business opportunities providing desirable rates of return. we intend to finance our capital expenditures in a manner that will maintain our investment-grade credit ratings and capital structure. capital stock transactions sempra energy cash provided by issuances of common and preferred stock was: $1.8 billion in 2019 $ 4.5 billion in 2018 $47 million in 2017 dividends sempra energy sempra energy paid cash dividends of: $ 993 million for common stock and $142 million for preferred stock in 2019 $877 million for common stock and $89 million for preferred stock in 2018 $755 million for common stock in 2017 on december 9, 2019, sempra energy declared a quarterly dividend of $0.9675 per share of common stock, $1.50 per share of series a preferred stock and $1.6875 per share of series b preferred stock, all of which were paid on january 15, 2020. dividends declared on common stock have increased in each of the last three years due to an increase in the per-share quarterly dividends approved by our board of directors to $0.9675 in 2019 ($3.87 annually) from $0.895 in 2018 ($3.58 annually) and from $0.8225 in 2017 ($3.29 annually). on february 25, 2020, our board of directors approved an increase in sempra energy's quarterly common stock dividend to $1.045 per share ($4.18 annually), the first of which is payable april 15, 2020. in addition, on february 25, 2020, our board of directors declared quarterly dividends of $1.50 per share on our series a preferred stock and $1.6875 per share on our series b preferred stock, both payable on april 15, 2020. declarations of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock are made at the discretion of the board of directors. while we view dividends as an integral component of shareholder return, the amount of future dividends will depend on earnings, cash flows, financial and legal requirements, and other relevant factors at that time. sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e did not declare or pay common stock dividends in 2019. in 2018 and 2017, sdg&amp;e paid common stock dividends to enova and enova paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $250 million and $450 million, respectively. sdg&amp;e's dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations and could be impacted over the next few years in order for sdg&amp;e to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. in january 2020, sdg&amp;e declared and paid common stock dividends to enova and enova declared and paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $200 million. enova, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of sdg&amp;e's outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by sdg&amp;e to enova and dividends paid by enova to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. 86 socalgas in 2019 and 2018, socalgas paid common stock dividends to pe and pe paid corresponding dividends to sempra energy of $150 million and $50 million, respectively. socalgas did not declare or pay common stock dividends in 2017. socalgas' dividends on common stock declared on an annual historical basis may not be indicative of future declarations and could be impacted over the next few years in order for socalgas to maintain its authorized capital structure while managing its capital investment program. pe, a wholly owned subsidiary of sempra energy, owns all of socalgas' outstanding common stock. accordingly, dividends paid by socalgas to pe and dividends paid by pe to sempra energy are both eliminated in sempra energy's consolidated financial statements. dividend restrictions the board of directors for each of sempra energy, sdg&amp;e and socalgas has the discretion to determine the payment and amount of future dividends by each such entity. the cpuc's regulation of sdg&amp;e's and socalgas' capital structures limits the amounts that are available for loans and dividends to sempra energy. at december 31, 2019 , based on these regulations, sempra energy could have received combined loans and dividends of approximately $885 million from sdg&amp;e and $742 million from socalgas. we provide additional information about dividend restrictions in restricted net assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. book value per common share sempra energy's book value per common share on the last day of each year was as follows: $60.58 in 2019 $54.35 in 2018 $50.40 in 2017 the increase in 2019 was primarily due to comprehensive income exceeding dividends and issuances of common stock. in 2018 , the increase was primarily due to issuances of common stock, partially offset by dividends exceeding comprehensive income. capitalization our debt to capitalization ratio, calculated as total debt as a percentage of total debt and equity, was as follows: total capitalization and debt-to-capitalization ratios (dollars in millions) sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas december 31, 2019 total capitalization $ 47,621 $ 13,542 $ 9,172 debt-to-capitalization ratio 54 % 48 % 48 % december 31, 2018 total capitalization $ 43,819 $ 12,625 $ 7,944 debt-to-capitalization ratio 56 % 52 % 46 % significant changes in 2019 that affected capitalization included the following: sempra energy consolidated: increase in short-term debt and increase in equity from issuances of common stock and comprehensive income exceeding dividends. sdg&amp;e: increase in equity from comprehensive income and common stock, partially offset by a decrease in nci due to deconsolidation of otay mesa vie. socalgas: increase in both long-term and short-term debt and from comprehensive income exceeding dividends. 87 commitments the following tables summarize undiscounted principal contractual commitments at december 31, 2019 , exclusive of commitments within discontinued operations, for sempra energy consolidated, sdg&amp;e and socalgas. we provide additional information about commitments above and in notes 1, 7 , 9 , 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. undiscounted principal contractual commitments sempra energy consolidated (dollars in millions) 2020 2021 and 2022 2023 and 2024 thereafter total long-term debt $ 1,501 $ 2,599 $ 2,780 $ 14,367 $ 21,247 interest on long-term debt (1) 822 1,518 1,365 10,346 14,051 operating leases 75 138 104 452 769 finance leases 198 385 379 2,629 3,591 purchased-power contracts fixed payments 233 462 360 904 1,959 purchased-power contracts estimated variable payments 326 656 655 3,707 5,344 natural gas contracts (2) 193 265 121 311 890 lng contract (3) 265 738 761 1,842 3,606 construction commitments 990 89 32 101 1,212 songs decommissioning 89 165 109 739 1,102 other asset retirement obligations 71 143 152 10,879 11,245 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 4 8 8 282 302 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (4) 275 463 453 896 2,087 wildfire fund obligation 13 26 26 51 116 environmental commitments (5) 9 34 3 50 96 other (6) 80 64 37 115 296 total $ 5,144 $ 7,753 $ 7,345 $ 47,671 $ 67,913 (1) we calculate expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations, including floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. we calculate expected interest payments for variable-rate obligations based on forward rates in effect at december 31, 2019 . (2) includes $11 million of estimated variable payments. (3) sempra lng has a sale and purchase agreement for the supply of lng to the eca lng regasification terminal. the commitment amount is calculated using a predetermined formula based on estimated forward prices of the index applicable from 2020 to 2029. (4) amounts represent expected company contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. (5) excludes environmental matters for the leak at socalgas' aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. (6) includes leases that have not yet commenced. 88 undiscounted principal contractual commitments sdg&amp;e (dollars in millions) 2020 2021 and 2022 2023 and 2024 thereafter total long-term debt $ 36 $ 404 $ 450 $ 4,250 $ 5,140 interest on long-term debt (1) 221 425 395 2,803 3,844 operating leases 30 54 32 28 144 finance leases 192 380 375 2,624 3,571 purchased-power contracts fixed payments 233 462 360 904 1,959 purchased-power contracts estimated variable payments 326 656 655 3,707 5,344 construction commitments 20 33 2 2 57 songs decommissioning 89 165 109 739 1,102 other asset retirement obligations 6 10 10 1,136 1,162 sunrise powerlink wildfire mitigation fund 4 8 8 282 302 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (2) 54 105 97 96 352 wildfire fund obligation 13 26 26 51 116 environmental commitments 3 7 2 35 47 other (3) 3 7 6 45 61 total $ 1,230 $ 2,742 $ 2,527 $ 16,702 $ 23,201 (1) sdg&amp;e calculates expected interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations. (2) amounts represent expected sdg&amp;e contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. (3) includes leases that have not yet commenced. undiscounted principal contractual commitments socalgas (dollars in millions) 2020 2021 and 2022 2023 and 2024 thereafter total long-term debt $ $ $ 500 $ 3,309 $ 3,809 interest on long-term debt (1) 148 297 292 2,174 2,911 natural gas contracts 124 154 36 35 349 operating leases 22 38 25 19 104 finance leases 6 5 4 5 20 environmental commitments (2) 6 27 1 14 48 pension and other postretirement benefit obligations (3) 155 307 310 698 1,470 asset retirement obligations 65 133 142 9,471 9,811 other 2 3 3 36 44 total $ 528 $ 964 $ 1,313 $ 15,761 $ 18,566 (1) socalgas calculates interest payments using the stated interest rate for fixed-rate obligations. (2) excludes amounts related to the natural gas leak at the aliso canyon natural gas storage facility. (3) amounts represent expected socalgas contributions to the plans for the next 10 years. the tables exclude contracts between consolidated affiliates, intercompany debt and employment contracts. the tables also exclude income tax liabilities at december 31, 2019 of: $93 million for sempra energy consolidated $12 million for sdg&amp;e $64 million for socalgas these liabilities relate to uncertain tax positions and were excluded from the tables because we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future payments due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. we provide additional information about unrecognized income tax benefits in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have bilateral unsecured standby letter of credit capacity with select lenders that is uncommitted and supported by reimbursement agreements. at december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $647 million in standby letters of credit outstanding under these agreements. 89 off-balance sheet arrangements at december 31, 2019 , sempra lng has provided guarantees aggregating a maximum of $4.0 billion associated with cameron lng jv's debt obligations. we discuss these guarantees in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. sdg&amp;e has entered into ppas that are variable interests. our investments in oncor holdings and cameron lng jv are variable interests. sempra energy's other businesses may also enter into arrangements that could include variable interests. we discuss variable interests in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. critical accounting policies and estimates management views certain accounting policies as critical because their application is the most relevant, judgmental, and/or material to our financial position and results of operations, and/or because they require the use of material judgments and estimates. we describe our significant accounting policies in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we discuss choices among alternative accounting policies that are material to our financial statements and information concerning significant estimates with the audit committee of the sempra energy board of directors. contingencies sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas we accrue losses for the estimated impacts of various conditions, situations or circumstances involving uncertain outcomes. for loss contingencies, we accrue the loss if an event has occurred on or before the balance sheet date and: information available through the date we file our financial statements indicates it is probable that a loss has been incurred, given the likelihood of uncertain future events the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated we do not accrue contingencies that might result in gains. we continuously assess contingencies for litigation claims, environmental remediation and other events. details of our issues in this area are discussed in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. regulatory accounting sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas as regulated entities, the california utilities' rates, as set and monitored by regulators, are designed to recover the cost of providing service and provide the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on their investments. the california utilities record regulatory assets, which are generally costs that would otherwise be charged to expense, if it is probable that, through the ratemaking process, the utility will recover that asset from customers in future rates. similarly, regulatory liabilities are recorded for amounts recovered in rates in advance or in excess of costs incurred. the california utilities assess probabilities of future rate recovery associated with regulatory account balances at the end of each reporting period and whenever new and/or unusual events occur, such as: changes in the regulatory and political environment or the utility's competitive position issuance of a regulatory commission order passage of new legislation to the extent that circumstances associated with regulatory balances change, the regulatory balances are evaluated and adjusted if appropriate. adverse legislative or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of our regulatory assets and liabilities and could materially adversely impact our financial statements. details of the california utilities' regulatory assets and liabilities and additional factors that management considers when assessing probabilities associated with regulatory balances are discussed in notes 1 , 4 , 15 and 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 90 income taxes sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas our income tax expense and related balance sheet amounts involve significant management judgments and estimates. amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as current and noncurrent accruals, involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income and deductions by taxing authorities. when we evaluate the anticipated resolution of income tax issues, we consider: past resolutions of the same or similar issue the status of any income tax examination in progress positions taken by taxing authorities with other taxpayers with similar issues the likelihood of deferred income tax recovery is based on analyses of the deferred income tax assets and our expectation of future taxable income, based on our strategic planning. actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts because of: future impacts of various items, including changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations and rulings our financial condition in future periods the resolution of various income tax issues between us and taxing and regulatory authorities for an uncertain position to qualify for benefit recognition, the position must have at least a more-likely-than-not chance of being sustained (based on the position's technical merits) upon challenge by the respective authorities. the term more-likely-than-not means a likelihood of more than 50%. if we do not have a more-likely-than-not position with respect to a tax position, then we do not recognize any of the potential tax benefit associated with the position. a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon the effective resolution of the tax position. unrecognized tax benefits involve management's judgment regarding the likelihood of the benefit being sustained. the final resolution of uncertain tax positions could result in adjustments to recorded amounts and may affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we discuss details of our issues in this area and additional information related to accounting for income taxes, including uncertainty in income taxes, in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. derivatives and hedge accounting sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas we record derivative instruments for which we do not apply a scope exception at fair value on the balance sheet. depending on the purpose for the contract and the applicability of hedge or regulatory accounting, the changes in fair value of derivatives may be recorded in earnings, on the balance sheet, or in oci. we also use the normal purchase or sale exception for certain derivative contracts. whenever possible, we use exchange quoted prices or other third-party pricing to estimate fair values; if no such data is available, we use internally developed models and other techniques . the assumed collectability of derivative assets considers events specific to a given counterparty, the counterparty's credit worthiness, and the tenor of the transaction. the application of hedge accounting and normal purchase or sale accounting for certain derivatives is determined on a contract-by-contract basis. significant changes in assumptions in our cash flow hedges, such as the amount and/or timing of forecasted transactions, could cause unrealized gains or losses (mark-to-market) to be reclassified out of aoci to earnings, which may materially impact our results of operations. additionally, changes in assumed physical delivery on contracts for which we elected normal purchase or sale accounting may result in tainting of the election, which may (1) preclude us from making this election in future transactions and (2) impact sempra energy's results of operations. any resulting impact on the california utilities' results of operations would not be significant because regulatory accounting principles generally apply to their contracts. we provide details of our derivative instruments and our fair value approaches in notes 11 and 12 , respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. pension and other postretirement benefit plans sempra energy, sdg&amp;e, socalgas 91 to measure our pension and other postretirement obligations, costs and liabilities, we rely on several assumptions. we consider current market conditions, including interest rates, in making these assumptions. we review these assumptions annually and update when appropriate. the critical assumptions used to develop the required estimates include the following key factors: discount rates expected return on plan assets health care cost trend rates mortality rates rate of compensation increases termination and retirement rates utilization of postretirement welfare benefits payout elections (lump sum or annuity) lump sum interest rates the actuarial assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to: return on plan assets changing market and economic conditions higher or lower withdrawal rates longer or shorter participant life spans more or fewer lump sum versus annuity payout elections made by plan participants higher or lower retirement rates these differences, other than those related to the california utilities' plans, where rate recovery offsets the effects of the assumptions on earnings, may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit expense we record. for plans other than those at the california utilities, the approximate annual effect on earnings of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed discount rate would be less than $2 million and the effect of a 100 bps increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return on plan assets would be less than $2 million. we provide details of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. asset retirement obligations sempra energy, sdg&amp;e sdg&amp;e's legal aros related to the decommissioning of songs are estimated based on a site-specific study performed no less than every three years. the estimate of the obligations includes: estimated decommissioning costs, including labor, equipment, material and other disposal costs inflation adjustment applied to estimated cash flows discount rate based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate actual decommissioning costs, progress to date and expected duration of decommissioning activities changes in the estimated decommissioning costs, or in the assumptions and judgments made by management underlying these estimates, could cause revisions to the estimated total cost associated with retiring the assets. sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning expenses are subject to rate recovery and, therefore, rate-making accounting treatment is applied to sdg&amp;e's nuclear decommissioning activities. sdg&amp;e recognizes a regulatory asset, or liability, to the extent that its songs aro exceeds, or is less than, the amount collected from customers and the amount earned in sdg&amp;e's ndt. we provide additional detail in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 92 impairment testing of long-lived assets sempra energy whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable, we consider if the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. if so, we estimate the fair value of the asset to determine the extent to which carrying value exceeds fair value. for such an estimate, we may consider data from multiple valuation methods, including data from market participants. we exercise judgment to estimate the future cash flows and the useful life of a long-lived asset and to determine our intent to use the asset. our intent to use or dispose of a long-lived asset is subject to re-evaluation and can change over time. if an impairment test is required, the fair value of a long-lived asset can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. we discuss impairment of long-lived assets in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements . impairment testing of goodwill sempra energy on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances necessitate an evaluation, we consider whether goodwill may be impaired. for our annual goodwill impairment testing, we have the option to first make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test. if we elect to perform the qualitative assessment, we evaluate relevant events and circumstances, including but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, changes in key personnel and the overall financial performance of the reporting unit. if, after assessing these qualitative factors, we determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. under the two-step goodwill impairment test, we first determine if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and if so, then measure the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. when determining if goodwill is impaired, the fair value of the reporting unit and goodwill can vary if differing estimates and assumptions are used in the valuation techniques applied as indicated by changing market or other conditions. as a result, recognizing a goodwill impairment may or may not be required. when we perform the two-step, quantitative goodwill impairment test, we exercise judgment to develop estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit and compare that to its carrying value. our fair value estimates are developed from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. we consider observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, if available, as well as an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future revenues and expenses and may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the reporting unit. critical assumptions that affect our estimates of fair value may include: consideration of market transactions future cash flows the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate country risk entity risk in 2019, we performed a quantitative goodwill impairment test and determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units in mexico to which goodwill was allocated was substantially above their carrying values as of october 1, 2019, our goodwill impairment testing date. we discuss goodwill in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. carrying value of equity method investments sempra energy we generally account for investments under the equity method when we have significant influence over, but do not have control of, the investee. we consider whether the fair value of each equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. to help evaluate whether a decline in fair value below carrying value has occurred and if the decline is other than temporary, we may develop fair value estimates for the investment. our fair value estimates are developed 93 from the perspective of a knowledgeable market participant. in the absence of observable transactions in the marketplace for similar investments, we consider an income-based approach such as a discounted cash flow analysis or, with less weighting, the replacement cost of the underlying net assets. a discounted cash flow analysis may be based directly on anticipated future distributions from the investment, or may be performed based on free cash flows generated within the entity and adjusted for our ownership share total. when calculating estimates of fair value, we also consider whether we intend to hold or sell the investment. for certain investments, critical assumptions may include: equity sale offer price for the investment transportation rates for natural gas the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate the availability and costs of natural gas and lng competing fuels and electricity estimated future power generation and associated tax credits renewable power price expectations in addition, for our indirect investment in oncor, critical assumptions may also include the effects of ratemaking, such as the results of regulator decisions on rates and recovery of regulated investments and costs. the risk assumptions applied by other market participants to value the investments could vary significantly or the appropriate approaches could be weighted differently. these differences could impact whether or not the fair value of the investment is less than its carrying value, and if so, whether that condition is other than temporary. this could result in an impairment charge and, in cases where an impairment charge has been recorded, additional loss or gain upon sale in the case of a sale transaction. we provide additional details in notes 6 and 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. new accounting standards we discuss the relevant pronouncements that have recently become effective and have had or may have a significant effect on our financial statements in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of erosion of our cash flows, earnings, asset values and equity due to adverse changes in market prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates. risk policies sempra energy has policies governing its market risk management and trading activities. sempra energy and the california utilities maintain separate risk management committees, organizations and processes for the california utilities and for all non-cpuc regulated affiliates to provide oversight of these activities. the committees consist of senior officers who establish policy, oversee energy risk management activities, and monitor the results of trading and other activities to ensure compliance with our stated energy risk management and trading policies. these activities include, but are not limited to, monitoring of market positions that create credit, liquidity and market risk. the respective oversight organizations and committees are independent from the energy procurement departments. along with other tools, we use var and liquidity metrics to measure our exposure to market risk associated with the commodity portfolios. var is an estimate of the potential loss on a position or portfolio of positions over a specified holding period, based on normal market conditions and within a given statistical confidence interval. we use a variance-covariance var model at a 95% confidence level. a liquidity metric is intended to monitor the amount of financial resources needed for meeting potential margin calls as forward market prices move. var and liquidity risk metrics are calculated independently by the respective risk management oversight organizations. the california utilities use power and natural gas derivatives to manage natural gas and electric price risk associated with servicing load requirements. the use of power and natural gas derivatives is subject to certain limitations imposed by company policy and is in compliance with risk management and trading activity plans that have been filed with and approved by the cpuc. we discuss revenue recognition in note 3 and the additional market-risk information regarding derivative instruments in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 94 we have exposure to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates. the following discussion of these primary market-risk exposures as of december 31, 2019 includes a discussion of how these exposures are managed. commodity price risk market risk related to physical commodities is created by volatility in the prices and basis of certain commodities. our various subsidiaries are exposed, in varying degrees, to price risk, primarily to prices in the natural gas and electricity markets. our policy is to manage this risk within a framework that considers the unique markets and operating and regulatory environments of each subsidiary. sempra mexico and sempra lng are generally exposed to commodity price risk indirectly through their lng, natural gas pipelines and storage, and power-generating assets. these segments may utilize commodity transactions in the course of optimizing these assets. these transactions are typically priced based on market indices, but may also include fixed price purchases and sales of commodities. any residual exposure is monitored as described above. a hypothetical 10% unfavorable change in commodity prices would not have resulted in a material change in the fair value of our commodity-based derivatives for these segments at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the impact of a change in energy commodity prices on our commodity-based derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when the contracts are ultimately settled and does not typically include the generally offsetting impact of our underlying asset positions. the california utilities' market-risk exposure is limited due to cpuc-authorized rate recovery of the costs of commodity purchases, interstate and intrastate transportation, and storage activity. however, socalgas may, at times, be exposed to market risk as a result of incentive mechanisms that reward or penalize the utility for commodity costs below or above certain benchmarks for socalgas' gcim. if commodity prices were to rise too rapidly, it is likely that volumes would decline. this decline would increase the per-unit fixed costs, which could lead to further volume declines. the california utilities manage their risk within the parameters of their market risk management framework. as of and for the year ended december 31, 2019 , the total var of the california utilities' natural gas and electric positions was not material, and the procurement activities were in compliance with the procurement plans filed with and approved by the cpuc. interest rate risk we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates primarily as a result of our having issued short- and long-term debt. subject to regulatory constraints, we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to interest rate changes and to lower our overall cost of borrowing. the table below shows the nominal amount of debt: nominal amount of debt (1) (dollars in millions) december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas sempra energy consolidated sdg&amp;e socalgas short-term: california utilities $ 710 $ 80 $ 630 $ 547 $ 291 $ 256 other 2,798 1,477 long-term: california utilities fixed-rate $ 8,949 $ 5,140 $ 3,809 $ 8,377 $ 4,918 $ 3,459 california utilities variable-rate 78 78 other fixed-rate 11,561 10,804 other variable-rate 746 2,091 (1) after the effects of interest rate swaps. before the effects of acquisition-related fair value adjustments and reductions for unamortized discount and debt issuance costs, and excluding finance lease obligations and build-to-suit arrangement. interest rate risk sensitivity analysis measures interest rate risk by calculating the estimated changes in earnings that would result from a hypothetical change in market interest rates. earnings are affected by changes in interest rates on short-term debt and variable long-term debt. if weighted-average interest rates on short-term debt outstanding at december 31, 2019 increased or decreased by 10%, the change in earnings over the 12-month period ended december 31, 2020 would be approximately $8 million . if interest rates increased or decreased by 10% on all variable-rate long-term debt at december 31, 2019 , after 95 considering the effects of interest rate swaps, the change in earnings over the 12-month period ended december 31, 2020 would be approximately $1 million . we provide further information about debt and interest rate swap transactions in notes 7 and 11, respectively, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we also are subject to the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the assets of our pension plans, other postretirement benefit plans, and sdg&amp;e's ndt. however, we expect the effects of these fluctuations, as they relate to the california utilities, to be recovered in future rates. foreign currency and inflation rate risk we discuss the impact of foreign currency and inflation rates in item 7. md&amp;a impact of foreign currency and inflation rates on results of operations. the hypothetical effect for every 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar against the mexican peso, in which we have operations and investments, are as follows: hypothetical effects from 10% strengthening of u.s. dollar (dollars in millions) hypothetical effects translation of 2019 earnings to u.s. dollars (1) $ (3 ) transactional exposure, before the effects of foreign currency derivatives (2) 102 translation of net assets of foreign subsidiaries and investment in foreign entities (3) (17 ) (1) amount represents the impact to earnings for a change in the average exchange rate throughout the reporting period. (2) amount primarily represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2019 on monetary assets and liabilities and translation of non-u.s. deferred income tax balances at our mexican subsidiaries. (3) amount represents the effects of currency exchange rate movement from december 31, 2019 recorded to oci at the end of each reporting period. monetary assets and liabilities at our mexican subsidiaries that are denominated in u.s. dollars may fluctuate significantly throughout the year. these monetary assets and liabilities and certain nonmonetary assets and liabilities are adjusted for mexican inflation for mexican income tax purposes. based on a net monetary liability position of $4.0 billion , including those related to our investments in jvs, at december 31, 2019 , the hypothetical effect of a 10% increase in the mexican inflation rate is approximately $77 million lower earnings as a result of higher income tax expense for our consolidated subsidiaries, as well as lower equity earnings for our jvs.