quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading "market risk" in item 7.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading "market risk" in item 7.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading &quot;market risk&quot; in item 7.risk factors our substantial level of debt could impair our financial condition. we had approximately $400 million of long-term debt, $120 million of outstanding letters of credit and $205 million of additional amounts available for borrowing as of february 4, 2007. our significant level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; and any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. we may not be able to continue to realize revenue growth from calvin klein. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein business. our realization of revenue growth from calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of calvin klein; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein licensees; continue to enter into new licensing agreements for the calvin klein brands, both domestically and internationally; successfully design and market the calvin klein men better sportswear line over time; and continue to open calvin klein outlet retail stores in premium outlet malls and successfully operate over time a chain of such stores. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the calvin klein brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any calvin klein branded products by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to develop and grow successfully the calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 19 the success of calvin klein depends on the value of our calvin klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein public image or reputation were to be tarnished. a substantial portion of our revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenues. a few of our customers, including federated department stores, inc., j. c. penney company, inc., kohl corporation and wal-mart stores, inc., account for significant portions of our revenues. sales to our five largest customers were 30.6% of our revenues in 2006, 34.3% of our revenues in 2005 and 28.8% of our revenues in 2004. federated, our largest customer, accounted for 11.4% of our revenues in 2006 and 13.7% of our revenues in 2005. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other business partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other business partners, could substantia lly reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our profitability. the retail industry has recently experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. for example, in august 2005, federated acquired the may department stores company and has closed approximately 80 stores. store closings will decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. federated may also close additional stores, which could further reduce our revenues. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunitie in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. we sell our products primarily to national and regional department, mid-tier department and mass market stores in the united states on credit and evaluate each customer financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another viable customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a mater ial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. during 2006, in excess of 98% of our apparel products, excluding neckwear, were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, the caribbean and central america. on may 15, 2006, we closed our apparel manufacturing facility in ozark, alabama. as a result, with the exception of neckwear, 100% of our products will be produced by independent third parties, principally located in foreign countries. approximately 60% of our neckwear is produced by independent third parties, principally located in foreign countries. we believe that we are one of the largest procurers of shirting fabric in the world. additionally, our footwear products and the raw materials therefor were produced by and purchased or procured from manufacturers located principally in countries in the far east, europe, south america and the caribbean and our neckwear fabric was prod uced by or procured from manufacturers in europe and the far east. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; 20 heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, which are currently in high demand; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars outbreak and the mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years and current concerns over an avian flu pandemic, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of the se events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. in 2006, we relied upon independent third parties for the manufacture of more than 98% of our apparel products and 100% of our footwear products. on may 15, 2006, we closed our apparel manufacturing facility in ozark, alabama. as a result, 100% of our products, with the exception of neckwear, will be produced by independent third parties. we produce approximately 40% of our neckwear in our domestic manufacturing facility, and the remaining 60% of our neckwear is produced by independent third parties. we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. a manufacturer failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution and neckwear manufacturing facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities, and approximately 40% of our neckwear is produced in only one facility that we lease. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on royalties and licensing. in 2006, $241.5 million, or 11.6%, of our revenues were derived from licensing royalties, advertising and other revenues, principally in our calvin klein licensing segment. royalty, advertising and other revenues from calvin klein two largest business partners accounted for approximately 55% of its royalty, advertising and other revenues in 2006. we also derive licensing revenues from our van heusen, izod, izod g, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from the sublicensing of geoffrey beene, bcbg max azria, bcbg attitude and donald j. trump signature collection. our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 34% of royalty, advertising and other revenues for these brand names as a group in 2006. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenues is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant business partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the business partner operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our business partners products and advertising, we rely on our business partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our business partners failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing business partners could materially and adversely affect our revenues both directly from reduced royalty and other revenues received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a business partner ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, we rely on our business partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our business partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a business partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. as a result of our acquisition of calvin klein in 2003, warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein brands, although to date, it has only ex ercised this right with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising previously maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; 22 a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisition of calvin klein, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. we cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, we were involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico, and calvin klein was involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, max azria, sean diddy combs (sean john) , donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan (dkny) , tommy hilfiger and ike behar. in entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pric ing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. our revenues and profits are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending patterns. the apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, with consumer spending tending to decline during recessionary periods. the success of our operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages and salaries), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. in addition, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war and terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is strong in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: 23 anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporate law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue additional shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporate law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers, including macy s, jcpenney, kohl and wal-mart, account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 30.2% of our revenue in 2007, 30.6% of our revenue in 2006 and 34.3% of our revenue in 2005. macy s, our largest customer, accounted for 9.7% of our revenue in 2007, 11.4% of our revenue in 2006 and 13.7% of our revenue in 2005. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. the retail industry has recently experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. for example, in august 2005, federated department stores, inc. (now known as macy s, inc.) acquired the may department stores company, and closed approximately 80 stores subsequent to the acquisition. store closings decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers an d decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. we sell our products primarily to national and regional department, mid-tier department and mass market stores in the united states on credit and evaluate each customer financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another viable customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenue and have a materi al adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to realize revenue growth from calvin klein. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein business. our realization of revenue growth from calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of the calvin klein brands; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein licensees; continue to enter into new licensing agreements for the calvin klein brands, both domestically and internationally; continue to successfully develop and expand the calvin klein men better sportswear line; and continue to open calvin klein outlet retail stores in premium outlet malls and successfully operate over time a chain of such stores. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the calvin klein brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any calvin klein branded products or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, 19 economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to develop and grow successfully the calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of calvin klein depends on the value of our calvin klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein public image or reputation were to be tarnished. our level of debt could impair our financial condition. we had approximately $400 million of long-term debt, $108 million of outstanding letters of credit and $217 million of additional amounts available for borrowing as of february 3, 2008. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; and any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. the availability of financing, if needed, could also be affected by general economic conditions, market conditions (such as the current so-called sub-prime mortgage crisis ) and other factors. as such, there can be no assurance that such financing could be obtained at such time as a need arises or that it would be available to us on terms satisfactory to us. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. during 2007, virtually all of our apparel products, excluding neckwear, were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, the caribbean and central america. approximately 67% of our neckwear is produced by independent third parties, principally located in foreign countries. we believe that we are one of the largest procurers of shirting fabric in the world. additionally, our footwear products and the raw materials therefor were produced by and purchased or procured from manufacturers located principally in countries in the far east, europe, south america and the caribbean, and our neckwear fabric was produced by or procured from manufacturers in europe and the far east. although no single supplier or country is critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver ou r products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; 20 heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, which are currently in high demand; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars outbreak and the mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years and concerns over an avian flu pandemic, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of the se events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. in 2007, we relied upon independent third parties for all of our apparel and footwear products and approximately 67% of our neckwear. we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. a manufacturer failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution and neckwear manufacturing facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities, and approximately 33% of our neckwear is produced in only one facility that we lease. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. in 2007, $297.5 million, or 12.3%, of our revenue was derived from licensing royalties, advertising and other revenue, principally in our calvin klein licensing segment. royalty, advertising and other revenue from calvin klein two largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 58% of its royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2007. we also derive licensing revenue from our van heusen, izod, bass, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from the sublicensing of geoffrey beene, bcbg max azria and bcbg attitude. our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 29% of royalty, advertising and other revenue for these brand names as a group in 2007. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar a greement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a licensing partner ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. as a result of our acquisition of calvin klein, warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein marks, although to date, it continues to work with calvin klein in-house advertising agency while exercising its rights with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising previously maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; 22 a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisition of calvin klein, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from eeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, we were involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico, and calvin klein was involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the calvin klein m ark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, max azria, sean diddy combs (sean john) , donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan (dkny) , tommy hilfiger and ike behar. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribu tion, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. our revenue and profit is cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending patterns. the apparel industry has historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, with consumer spending tending to decline during recessionary periods. the success of our operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages and salaries), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers use of credit. in addition, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war and terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is strong in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: 23 anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporate law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. 24 in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporate law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors further deterioration of economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may further adversely affect our business. the deterioration in economic conditions over the course of 2008 and the current state of the global economy has adversely affected our customers and consumer spending and, as a result, our business has been adversely affected, as well. conditions may remain depressed or may be subject to further deterioration and may lead to a continued reduction in consumer spending, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. reduced sales by some of our wholesale customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, has and may continue to result in various retailers experiencing significant financial difficulties. financial difficulties of customers has resulted and could continue to result in reduced sales by us to those customers and has resulted and could continue to result in store closures, restructurings, bankruptcies or liquidations. higher credit risk relat ing to receivables from customers experiencing financial difficulty may also result. our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on our trade receivables could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the recent distress in the financial markets has also resulted in diminished liquidity and credit availability. as such, if conditions continue, there can be no assurance that we could obtain financing, or refinance existing debt, when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers, including macy s, jcpenney, kohl and wal-mart, account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 31.7% of our revenue in 2008, 30.2% of our revenue in 2007 and 30.6% of our revenue in 2006. macy s, our largest customer, accounted for 11.5% of our revenue in 2008, 9.7% of our revenue in 2007 and 11.4% of our revenue in 2006. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations . we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein business in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein business. our realization of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of the calvin klein brands; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein licensees; and continue to enter into new licensing agreements for the calvin klein brands, both domestically and internationally. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the calvin klein brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any calvin klein branded products or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to develop and grow successfully the calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 17 the success of calvin klein depends on the value of our calvin klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein public image or reputation were to be tarnished. our level of debt could impair our financial condition. we had approximately $400 million of long-term debt, $116 million of outstanding letters of credit and $209 million of additional amounts available for borrowing as of february 1, 2009. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. substantially all of our revenue and expenses are currently denominated in united states dollars. however, certain of our operations and license agreements expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the rate of exchange of the united states dollar against the euro, the pound, the yen and the canadian dollar. our principal exposure to changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar results from our licensing businesses. many of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. as a result, during times of a str engthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely affected. a secondary exposure to changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar results from our foreign operations. our foreign operations include sales of our products to department and specialty stores throughout canada and parts of europe. sales for these foreign operations are both generated and collected in foreign currency, which exposes us to foreign exchange gains and losses between the date of the sale and the date we collect payment. as with our licensing business, the results of these operations will be adversely affected during times of a strengthening united states dollar. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. virtually all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and 18 adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, which are currently in high demand; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of the se events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. we rely upon independent third parties for all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade neckwear. we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. a manufacturer failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the 19 distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. in 2008, $331.2 million, or 13.3%, of our revenue was derived from licensing royalties, advertising and other revenue, principally in our calvin klein licensing segment. royalty, advertising and other revenue from calvin klein two largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 56% of its royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2008. we also derive licensing revenue from our van heusen, izod, bass, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from the sublicensing of geoffrey beene. our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 29% of royalty, advertising and other revenue for these brand names as a group in 2008. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners ability to: obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. in addition, we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. as a result of our acquisition of calvin klein, warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein marks, although to date, it continues to work with calvin klein in-house advertising agency while exercising its rights with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising previously maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us. in addition, we may be adversely affected by reduced travel due to economic conditions. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; 20 increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. in 2008, certain of our businesses and those of certain of our licensees were adversely affected by the curtailment of travel that accompanied the global economic slowdown. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisition of calvin klein, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from eeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, we were involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico, and calvin klein was involved in a proceeding relating to a company claim of prior rights to the calvin klein m ark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, max azria, sean diddy combs (sean john) , donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan (dkny) , tommy hilfiger and ike behar. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribu tion, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is strong in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; 21 ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporate law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporate law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors as noted in item 1 of this report, our discussions herein, including with respect to the risk factors discussed below, do not contemplate the effects of the completion of our proposed acquisition of tommy hilfiger, expect where specifically noted. the completion of this acquisition could exacerbate our susceptibility to the risk factors below, as well as create additional risks to the company, our financial condition and results of operations and an investment in our securities. recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. economic conditions may adversely affect our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. recent and future economic developments may lead to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. such events could also adversely affect the businesses of our wholesale and retail customers, which may, among other things, result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. recent or future turmoil in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers, including macy s, jcpenney, kohl and wal-mart, account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 31.0% of our revenue in 2009, 31.7% of our revenue in 2008 and 30.2% of our revenue in 2007. macy s, our largest customer, accounted for 11.9% of our revenue in 2009, 11.5% of our revenue in 2008 and 9.7% of our revenue in 2007. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or 16 other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and de crease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein business in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein business. our realization of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of the calvin klein brands; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein licensees; and continue to enter into new licensing agreements for the calvin klein brands, both domestically and internationally. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the calvin klein brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any calvin klein branded products or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to develop and grow successfully the calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. we would have simi lar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands and businesses if that acquisition is completed. the success of calvin klein depends on the value of our calvin klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we would have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands and mr. hilfiger should that acquisition be completed. our level of debt could impair our financial condition. we had approximately $400 million of long-term debt, $135 million of outstanding letters of credit and $190 million of additional amounts available for borrowing as of january 31, 2010. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; 17 limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally; and our proposed acquisition of tommy hilfiger, if consummated, will require us to incur a significant amount of debt, and we will be required to utilize a significant portion of our cash flow to pay the interest and principal on such debt. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. substantially all of our revenue and expenses are currently denominated in united states dollars. however, certain of our operations and license agreements expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the rate of exchange of the united states dollar against the euro, the pound, the yen and the canadian dollar. our principal exposure to changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar results from our licensing businesses. many of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. as a result, during times of a stre ngthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely affected. a secondary exposure to changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar results from our foreign operations. our foreign operations include sales of our products to department and specialty stores throughout canada and parts of europe. sales for these foreign operations are both generated and collected in foreign currency, which exposes us to foreign exchange gains and losses between the date of the sale and the date we collect payment. as with our licensing business, the results of these operations will be adversely affected during times of a strengthening united states dollar. these risks would be increased if our proposed acquisition of tommy hilfiger is completed, as that business has significant operations outside of the united states. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. virtually all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; 18 the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of thes e events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. we rely upon independent third parties for all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade neckwear. we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. a manufacturer failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. in 2009, $328.0 million, or 13.7%, of our revenue was derived from licensing royalties, advertising and other revenue, principally in our calvin klein licensing segment. royalty, advertising and other revenue from calvin klein three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 67% of its royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2009. we also derive licensing revenue from our van heusen, izod, bass, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from the sublicensing of geoffrey beene. our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 31% of royalty, advertising and other revenue for these brand names as a group in 2009. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. 19 while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners ability to: obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein marks, although to date, it continues to work with calvin klein in-house advertising agency while exercising its rights with res pect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising that has been maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. additionally, some of our licensees, including some of our largest calvin klein licensees, are not united states entities and may be able to produce or sell goods in places prohibited under united states federal law or regulation. for example, foreign licensees may have rights to produce or sell goods in iran, north korea, cuba, syria or sudan, which are prohibited under united states law. such activity, even if legal for a licensee or other authorized party, could bring our brands into disrepute, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us. in addition, we may be adversely affected by reduced travel due to economic conditions. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. in 2008, certain of our businesses and those of certain of our licensees were adversely affected by the curtailment of travel that accompanied the global economic slowdown. 20 we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisition of calvin klein, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. the acquisition of tommy hilfiger would create similar risks with regard to the tommy hilfiger brands. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company claim of p rior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs (sean john) , donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan (dkny) , tommy hilfiger, ike behar, elie tahari and robert graham. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is strong in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. 21 the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, including our proposed acquisition of tommy hilfiger, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our proposed acquisition of tommy hilfiger is subject to conditions, which may not be satisfied, in which event the transaction may not close. there can be no assurance that we can obtain the financing that we need to complete the deal or that such financing can be obtained on the terms currently contemplated. our plans and results of operations will be affected by our ability to realize benefits from the acquisition of tommy hilfiger, if the acquisition is consummated. if the transaction does not close due to the failure to obtain the financing or satisfy certain other conditions, we have agreed to pay 69.0 million to the selling shareholders. certain additional significant costs will be incurred regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporate law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporate law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, may adversely affect our business. economic conditions may adversely affect our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. recent and future economic developments may lead to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. such events could also adversely affect the businesses of our wholesale and retail customers, which may, among other things, result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. recent or future turmoil in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers, including macy's, j.c. penney, kohl's and wal-mart, account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 22.6% of our revenue in 2010, 31.0% of our revenue in 2009 and 31.7% of our revenue in 2008. macy's, our largest customer, accounted for 10.1% of our revenue in 2010, 11.9% of our revenue in 2009 and 11.5% of our revenue in 2008. tommy hilfiger is party to a strategic alliance with macy's providing for the exclusive wholesale distribution in the united states of most men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the current term of the agreement with macy's ends on january 31, 2014 and is renewable at the option of macy's for up to two additional renewal terms of three years each. prior to our acquisition of tommy hilfiger, macy's represented approximately 14% of tommy hilfiger's north america revenue and 6% of its total revenue. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. upon the expiration of the current term of the macy's agreement and each subsequent three-year term, macy's may be unwilling to renew the macy's agreement on favorable terms, or at all. in addition, our and tommy hilfiger's united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our realization of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; 18 retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, both domestically and internationally; and continue to strengthen and expand the tommy hilfiger business. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brand. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with tommy hilfiger will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect tommy hilfiger. our level of debt could impair our financial condition. in connection with the acquisition of tommy hilfiger, we borrowed term loans (of which $1.7 billion in principal amount was outstanding as of january 30, 2011) under our senior secured credit facility and issued $600 million in high-yield notes. we also have $100 million of secured debentures outstanding. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and 19 with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our revolving credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates has increased significantly as a result of the acquisition of tommy hilfiger, as the tommy hilfiger business has a substantial international component. accordingly, the impact of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the japanese yen and the canadian dollar, will have a significantly larger negative impact on our results of operations than prior to the acquisition of tommy hilfiger. our tommy hilfiger business purchases the majority of the products that it sells in united states dollars, which exposes the international tommy hilfiger business to foreign exchange risk as the united states dollar fluctuates. as such, we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with united states dollar denominated purchases by the tommy hilfiger international business. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses, particularly our calvin klein business. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we have licensed businesses in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to us, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; 20 disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung to carry out most of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products. li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. under the terms of the agreement, we are required to use li &amp; fung for at least 54% of our global sourcing needs for tommy hilfiger products. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason, and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third-party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. although alternative sourcing companies exist, we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or 21 disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a significant portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. royalty, advertising and other revenue from calvin klein's three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 69% of its royalty, advertising and other revenue in 2010. from the date of our acquisition of tommy hilfiger through january 30, 2011, royalty, advertising and other revenue from tommy hilfiger's three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 36% of its royalty, advertising and other revenue. we also derive licensing revenue from our van heusen, izod, bass, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from the sublicensing of geoffrey beene . the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein marks, although to date, it continues to work with calvin klein's in-house advertising agency while exercising its rights with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising that has been maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our north american retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse affect on us. in 2008 and 2009, certain of our and tommy hilfiger's businesses and those of certain of our and tommy hilfiger's licensees were adversely affected by the curtailment of travel that accompanied the global economic slowdown. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. 22 we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisitions of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs ( sean john ), donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan ( dkny ), ike behar, elie tahari and robert graham. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. 23 the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in a number of countries, including the united states, canada, the netherlands, germany, the united kingdom, italy, japan, hong kong and china, and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the various countries in which we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may face increases in taxes payable if tax rates increase, or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions in which we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us making a payment in an amount that differs from the amount for which we may have reserved with respect to any particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax becoming due. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income, and potential tax planning strategies. in 24 addition, the united states tax rules impose an annual limit on the amount of certain loss carryovers of tommy hilfiger that we can use following the acquisition, and, depending on our taxable income in tax years following the acquisition, such limit may be material. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors recent and future economic conditions, including turmoil in the financial and credit markets, have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business. economic conditions have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. recent economic developments have led to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. such events have affected, and in the future could adversely affect, the businesses of our wholesale and retail customers, which, among other things, have resulted and may result 18 in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. recent or future turmoil in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 19.5% of our revenue in 2011, 22.6% of our revenue in 2010 and 31.0% of our revenue in 2009. macy's, our largest customer, accounted for 9.4% of our revenue in 2011, 10.1% of our revenue in 2010 and 11.9% of our revenue in 2009. tommy hilfiger is party to a strategic alliance with macy's providing for the exclusive wholesale distribution in the united states of most men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the current term of the agreement with macy's ends on january 31, 2014 and is renewable at the option of macy's for up to two additional renewal terms of three years each. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. upon the expiration of the current term of the macy's agreement and each subsequent three-year term, macy's may be unwilling to renew the macy's agreement on favorable terms, or at all. in addition, our united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our realization of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the tommy hilfiger business. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our 19 relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brand. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition. as of january 29, 2012, we had outstanding an aggregate of $1.2 billion of term loan borrowings under our amended senior secured credit facility, $600 million of senior unsecured notes and $100 million of secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our revolving credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our tommy hilfiger business has a substantial international component, which exposes us to significant foreign exchange risk. accordingly, the impact of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the japanese yen and the canadian dollar, will have a negative impact on our results of operations. we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain anticipated cash flows associated with certain international inventory purchases. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these international inventory purchases, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses, particularly our calvin klein business. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect 20 payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we have licensed businesses in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to us, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, europe, or japan, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. however, we do not control our manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders 21 could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. this could be more adverse if multiple manufacturers engaged in these types of activities. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung to carry out most of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products. li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. under the terms of the agreement, we are required to use li &amp; fung for at least 54% of our global sourcing needs for tommy hilfiger products. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason, and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third-party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. although alternative sourcing companies exist, we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, 22 advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein marks, although to date, it continues to work with calvin klein's in-house advertising agency while exercising its rights with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, advertising that has been maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our north american retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse affect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisitions of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs ( sean john ), donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan ( dkny ), ike behar, elie tahari, john varvatos and robert graham. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. 23 we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries, including the united states, canada, the netherlands, germany, the united kingdom, italy, japan, hong kong and china, and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and 24 there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase, or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax becoming due. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies; the acquired warnaco business may underperform relative to our expectations; and the warnaco acquisition may cause our financial results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of the investment community. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the warnaco acquisition. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, but due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business, such as warnaco, and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 recent and future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets, have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business. economic conditions have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. recent economic developments have led to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. such events have affected, and in the future could adversely affect, the businesses of our wholesale and retail customers, which, among other things, have resulted and may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. recent or future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 18.7% of our revenue in 2012, 19.5% of our revenue in 2011 and 22.6% of our revenue in 2010. macy's, our largest customer, accounted for 8.7% of our revenue in 2012, 9.4% of our revenue in 2011 and 10.1% of our revenue in 2010. tommy hilfiger is party to a strategic alliance with macy's providing for the exclusive wholesale distribution in the united states of most men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the current term of the agreement with macy's ends on january 31, 2014 and is renewable at the option of macy's for up to two additional renewal terms of three years each. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. we are currently in discussions with macy's regarding renewing the agreement and currently expect the renewal to occur, although there can be no assurances this will be the case. in addition, our united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: realize the synergies, efficiencies and strategic rationale of the warnaco acquisition; continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; 21 continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brand. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. as of february 3, 2013, we had outstanding an aggregate of $900 million of term loan borrowings under our amended senior secured credit facility, $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes ($700 million of which was issued in connection with the warnaco acquisition) and $100 million of secured debentures. on february 13, 2013 we terminated our amended senior secured credit facility and entered into a new senior secured credit facility, under which we had $3.075 billion of borrowings outstanding as of february 13, 2013. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. 22 our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our tommy hilfiger business and the calvin klein jeanswear and underwear businesses acquired from warnaco each have a substantial international component, which exposes us to significant foreign exchange risk. accordingly, the impact of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee and the chinese yuan, will have a negative impact on our results of operations. we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain anticipated cash flows associated with certain international inventory purchases and certain intercompany loans. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses, particularly our calvin klein business. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to us, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; 23 imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; a significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, and the manufacturers used by our licensees (and the licensees themselves), to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. in 2012, we signed a joint memorandum of understanding to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers (or licensees) violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. this could be more adverse if multiple manufacturers engaged in these types of activities. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung to carry out most of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products. li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. under the terms of the agreement, we are required to use li &amp; fung for at least 54% of our global sourcing needs for tommy hilfiger products. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason, and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third-party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. although alternative sourcing companies exist, we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the 24 distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a substantial portion of our calvin klein licensing revenue was generated from warnaco (previously our largest licensee), this exposure has been substantially reduced by the acquisition of warnaco on february 13, 2013. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our north american retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse affect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisitions of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully 25 resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs ( sean john ), donald j. trump, michael kors, joseph abboud, donna karan ( dkny ), ike behar, elie tahari, john varvatos and robert graham. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries, and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase 26 or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax becoming due. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. this is particularly important as we commence the integration of warnaco and seek to transition its business and financial reporting systems onto our platforms. the failure of our systems to operate effectively, disruption in our systems or our inability to merge our systems with warnaco's could adversely impact our operations. additionally, any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. these obligations will increase significantly as a result of the warnaco acquisition, both as a result of the addition of a large number of new participants and because warnaco has a discontinued plan, the assets of which still must be maintained. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. 27 provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the warnaco acquisition. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, but due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business, such as warnaco, and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 20.8% of our revenue in 2013, 18.7% of our revenue in 2012 and 19.5% of our revenue in 2011. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2013, 2012 or 2011. tommy hilfiger is party to a strategic alliance with macy's providing for the exclusive wholesale distribution in the united states of most men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the term of the agreement with macy's ends on january 31, 2017 and is renewable at the option of macy's for one three-year renewal term. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. in addition, our united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. 19 during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. recent and future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets, have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business. economic conditions have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. recent economic developments have led to a reduction in consumer spending overall, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. such events have affected, and in the future could adversely affect, the businesses of our customers, which, among other things, have resulted and may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. recent or future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to realize the synergies, efficiencies and strategic rationale of the warnaco acquisition; continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the 20 tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. as of february 2, 2014, we had outstanding an aggregate of $2.6 billion of term loan borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes and $100 million of secured debentures. in march 2014 we amended and restated our senior secured credit facility, borrowed an additional $600 million thereunder, and redeemed $600 million of our senior unsecured notes, resulting in an aggregate of $3.2 billion of term loan borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, $700 million of senior unsecured notes and $100 million of secured debentures outstanding as of march 24, 2014. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses each have a substantial international component, which exposes us to significant foreign exchange risk. accordingly, the impact of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee and the chinese yuan, will have a negative impact on our results of operations. we have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain anticipated cash flows associated with certain international inventory purchases and certain intercompany loans. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses, particularly our calvin klein business. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be adversely impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our 21 international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean, central america and africa. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; a significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, and the manufacturers used by our licensees (and the licensees themselves), to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. in 2013, we committed to join the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers or licensees, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers (or licensees) violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. this could be more adverse if multiple manufacturers engaged in these types of activities. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. 22 we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung to carry out most of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products. li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. under the terms of the agreement, we are required to use li &amp; fung for at least 54% of our global sourcing needs for tommy hilfiger products, or otherwise pay a penalty. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason, and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third-party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. although alternative sourcing companies exist, we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital; execute their business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage their labor relations; maintain relationships with their suppliers; manage their credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. a large number of our retail stores are located in or near major cities and vacation destinations. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse affect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisitions of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs ( sean john ), donald j. trump, michael kors, donna karan ( dkny ), ike behar, elie tahari, john varvatos and robert graham. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; 24 maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries, and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax becoming due. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 25 we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. this is particularly important as we continue the integration of warnaco and the transition of its business and financial reporting systems onto our platforms. the failure of our systems to operate effectively, disruption in our systems or our inability to merge our systems with warnaco's could adversely impact our operations. additionally, any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. these obligations increased significantly as a result of the warnaco acquisition, both as a result of the addition of a large number of new participants and because warnaco has a discontinued plan, the assets of which still must be maintained. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity in item 7.risk factors acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the warnaco acquisition. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities, but due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business, such as warnaco, and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 21.8% of our revenue in 2014, 20.8% of our revenue in 2013 and 18.7% of our revenue in 2012. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2014, 2013 or 2012. tommy hilfiger is party to an agreement with macy's providing for the exclusive department store distribution in the united states of men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the term of the agreement with macy's ends on january 31, 2017 and is renewable at the option of macy's for one three-year renewal term. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. in addition, our united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether 19 motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and our financing and other contractual arrangements. such conditions have affected, and in the future could adversely affect, the businesses of our customers, which, among other things, have resulted and may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to realize the efficiencies and strategic rationale of the warnaco acquisition; continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 20 the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. as of february 1, 2015, we had outstanding an aggregate of $2.738 billion of term loan borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, $700 million of senior unsecured notes and $100 million of secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses each have substantial international components, which expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands businesses also have international components but are less exposed to foreign exchange risk. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways; a translation impact and a transaction impact. the translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our published financial results, as our revenue and profit earned in local foreign currencies is translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. accordingly, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, our results of operations will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2014, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our results of operations will be favorably impacted. the transaction impact on financial results is common for apparel companies that source goods because these goods are often purchased in united states dollars for foreign affiliates. as with translation, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our results of operations will be negatively impacted from these transactions because the united states dollar-based inventory converts into a higher amount of local currency inventory, and thus a higher local currency cost of goods when the goods are sold. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. 21 we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2014, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean, central america and africa. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; a significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. 22 if our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, and the manufacturers used by our licensees (and the licensees themselves), to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we are a signatory of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers or licensees, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers (or licensees) violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. this could be more adverse if multiple manufacturers engaged in these types of activities. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung to carry out most of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products. li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. under the terms of the agreement, we are required to use li &amp; fung for at least 54% of our global sourcing needs for tommy hilfiger products, or otherwise pay a penalty. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason, and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. although alternative sourcing companies exist, we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also rely on certain independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, and/or incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. 23 therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our licensing partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. a large number of our retail stores are located in or near major cities and vacation destinations. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse affect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. additionally, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, as was the case during 2014, international tourism to the united states could be reduced, which could have a material adverse affect on our sales in our retail locations. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. 24 the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, sean diddy combs ( sean john ), donald j. trump, michael kors, donna karan ( dkny ), ike behar and ryan seacrest. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. in addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers as they also sell their own private label products in their stores. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries, and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. 25 we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of our systems to operate effectively, disruption in our systems or our inability to merge our systems with warnaco's could adversely impact our operations. additionally, any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. for example, in 2014 we recorded an actuarial loss on our pension plans of $122 million, driven principally by a decrease in the discount rate and updated mortality assumptions. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our 26 projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. as of february 1, 2015, we had approximately $3.3 billion of goodwill and $3.8 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represent 65% of our total assets. during the fourth quarter of 2014, we announced our plan to exit the izod retail business in 2015. the decision to exit this business was a triggering event that indicated that the amount of goodwill allocated to our heritage brands retail reporting unit could be impaired, prompting the need for us to perform a goodwill impairment test for this reporting unit. as a result of this interim test, the goodwill allocated to the heritage brands retail reporting unit was determined to be impaired and an impairment charge of $12 million was recorded. our annual goodwill impairment test during 2014 yielded calculated fair values in excess of the carrying amounts for all of our other reporting units with the minimum resulting percentage of excess fair value of 37%. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.risk factors acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the calvin klein, tommy hilfiger and warnaco acquisitions. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; 16 unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 22.2% of our revenue in 2015, 21.8% of our revenue in 2014 and 20.8% of our revenue in 2013. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013. tommy hilfiger is party to an agreement with macy's providing for the exclusive department store distribution in the united states of men's, women's and children's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the term of this agreement ends on january 31, 2017 and is renewable, subject to certain conditions, at the option of macy's for one three-year renewal term. as a result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. in addition, our united states wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers, other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products or be unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses each have substantial international components, which expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands business also has international components but is less exposed to foreign exchange risk. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translation impact and a transaction impact. the translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our published financial results, as our revenue and profit earned in local foreign currencies is translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. accordingly, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, our results of operations will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2015 and which we expect for 2016, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our results of operations will be favorably impacted. the transaction impact on financial results is attributable to the purchase in united states dollars of a vast majority of the goods sold by our businesses in our foreign markets. as with translation, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our results of operations will be negatively impacted from these transactions as the increased local currency value of inventory results in higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany loans. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2015 and which we expect for 2016, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to realize the efficiencies and strategic rationale of the warnaco acquisition; 18 continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and/or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. we had outstanding as of january 31, 2016 an aggregate of $2.4 billion of term loan borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, $700 million of senior unsecured notes and $100 million of secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap or interest rate cap agreement. 19 we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. all of our apparel and footwear products, excluding handmade and handfinished neckwear, are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, the far east, the indian subcontinent, the middle east, south america, the caribbean, central america and africa. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political, labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; a significant fluctuation of the value of the united states dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, and the manufacturers used by our licensees (and the licensees themselves), to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we are a signatory of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers or licensees, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers (or licensees) violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. 20 we are dependent on third parties to source and/or manufacture our products and any disruption in the relationship with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung under which we are obligated to source at least 54% of our tommy hilfiger products through li &amp; fung (or pay a penalty). li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. we also use other third party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, or the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. we may be unable to source tommy hilfiger products through other third parties in sufficient quantities, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationship with our buying offices or businesses, particularly li &amp; fung, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also rely on certain independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensing partners' use of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. the vast majority of our retail stores are located away from major residential centers and, in many cases, are near vacation destinations. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. additionally, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, as was the case during 2015 and which we expect for 2016, international tourism to the united states could be (and, in 2015 was) reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales in our united states retail stores, which are material contributors of revenue and profits. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, michael kors and sean puff daddy combs ( sean john ). in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. in addition, 22 in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers as they also sell their own private label products in their stores. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. 23 our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of our systems to operate effectively or disruption in our systems could adversely impact our operations. additionally, any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. as of january 31, 2016, we had approximately $3.2 billion of goodwill and $3.6 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represent 64% of our total assets. our annual goodwill impairment test during 2015 yielded calculated fair values in excess of the carrying amounts for all of our reporting units, with the minimum resulting percentage of excess fair value of 17%. 24 provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.risk factors 18 risk factors our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and control regulations. our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands business also has international components but those components are not significant to the business. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translation impact and a transaction impact. the translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our financial results, as our operating results in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. accordingly, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, our results of operations will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2016 and which we expect, to a lesser extent, in 2017, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our results of operations will be favorably impacted. the transaction impact on financial results is common for apparel companies operating outside the united states that purchase goods in united states dollars, as is the case with most of our foreign operations. during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our results of operations will be negatively impacted from these transactions as the increased local currency value of inventory results in higher cost of goods sold in local currency when the goods are sold, as was the case during 2016 and which we expect, to a lesser extent, in 2017, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our results of operations will be favorably impacted. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany transactions and, to a lesser extent, sg&amp;a expenses that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a particular entity. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to market risk for changes in exchange rates for the united states dollar in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not generally exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, as was the case during 2016 and which we expect, to a lesser extent, in 2017, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers and the loss of any of these customers or significant financial difficulties in their businesses could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 21.3% of our revenue in 2016, 22.2% of our revenue in 2015 and 21.8% of our revenue in 2014. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2016, 2015 or 2014. in february 2017, macy's announced that it had closed 66 stores and plans to close approximately 30 additional stores over the next several years and j. c. penney company, inc. ( j. c. penney ) announced that it will close between 130 and 140 locations in 2017. these store closings may result in a decrease in the total amount of purchases made by macy's and j. c. penney, two of our five largest customers in 2016, and could have an adverse effect on our united states wholesale business. tommy hilfiger is party to an agreement with macy's providing for the exclusive department store distribution in the united states of men's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the term of this agreement ends on january 31, 2020. as a 18 result of this strategic alliance, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american men's wholesale business is substantially dependent on this relationship and on macy's ability to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. in addition, our united states men's wholesale businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in macy's overall ability to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers, other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers, such as those described above, decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new (or renew or extend existing) licensing agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow either the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the calvin klein, tommy hilfiger and warnaco acquisitions. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; 19 higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations affecting the acquired business; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products or be unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. the vast majority of our retail stores are located away from major residential centers and, in many cases, are near vacation destinations. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. additionally, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso and the chinese yuan renminbi, as was the case during 2016 and which we expect for 2017, international tourism to the united states could be (and, in 2016 was) reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales in our united states retail stores, which are material contributors of revenue and profits. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the malls are located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. 20 the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. we had outstanding as of january 29, 2017 an aggregate of $3.223 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, our senior notes and our secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facility, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap or interest rate cap agreement. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. the majority of our apparel and footwear products are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, asia (including china and the indian subcontinent), the middle east, south america, the caribbean, central america and africa. we believe that we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political, labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundments of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; 21 a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. recently, members of the united states government have indicated their intentions to reform trade and tax regulations related to the import of goods into the united states and significant changes seem likely. proposed reforms include increased tariffs on imported goods into the united states from certain countries where our goods are produced and a border adjustment tax that would increase income taxes on the sales of imported goods in the united states. substantially all of the products we sell in the united states are imported. therefore, while enactment of any such proposal is not certain, such changes, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if our manufacturers, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, and the manufacturers used by our licensees (and the licensees themselves), to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we are a signatory of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers or licensees, or the manufacturers used by our licensees, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers (or licensees) violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and manufacture our products and any disruption in our relationships with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. in addition, we are a party to a non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung under which we are obligated to source certain calvin klein jeans products and at least 54% of certain tommy hilfiger products through li &amp; fung (or pay a penalty). li &amp; fung is one of the world's largest buying agencies for apparel and related goods and is our largest buying office for tommy hilfiger products. the buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung is terminable by us upon 12 months' prior notice for any reason and is terminable by either party (i) upon six months' prior notice in the event of a material breach by the other party and (ii) immediately upon the occurrence of certain bankruptcy or insolvency events relating to the other party. in march 2017, we entered into agreements for a transaction to restructure our supply chain relationship with li &amp; fung. the transaction establishes a new strategic partnership with li &amp; fung to provide services to us and also provides for the termination of our non-exclusive buying agency agreement with li &amp; fung. the transaction is expected to close july 1, 2017. if the transaction 22 does not close, we will continue to be obligated under the non-exclusive buying agreement with li &amp; fung described above. we also use other third party buying offices for a portion of our sourcing for tommy hilfiger products and have retained a small in-house sourcing team. any interruption in the operations of li &amp; fung or other buying offices, the failure of li &amp; fung or other buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, or the failure of us to realize the expected benefits of the transaction described above, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. we may be unable to source products through other third parties in sufficient quantities, if at all, on terms commercially acceptable to us and on a timely basis. any disruption in our relationships with our buying offices or in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also rely on certain independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensing partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensing partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensing partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensing partners could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty and advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensing partners' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensing partners' use of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally premium pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be 23 trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, michael kors and sean puff daddy combs ( sean john ). in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. in addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers as they also sell their own private label products in their stores. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key executives in various areas of our businesses and operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. 24 a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of our systems to operate effectively or disruption in our systems could adversely impact our operations. additionally, any electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. 25 goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. as of january 29, 2017, we had approximately $3.470 billion of goodwill and $3.610 billion of trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represented 64% of our total assets. no impairment was recorded in 2016 based on our annual goodwill impairment test. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.risk factors 16 risk factors the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained within this report. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may occur or become material and may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers and the loss of any of these customers or significant financial difficulties in their businesses could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 18.9% of our revenue in 2017, 21.3% of our revenue in 2016 and 22.2% of our revenue in 2015. no single customer accounted for 16 more than 10% of our revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015. macy's announced in 2016 plans to close approximately 100 stores, of which 82 were closed during 2017 and 2016. j. c. penney company, inc. ( j. c. penney ) closed 139 locations in 2017 and announced plans to close eight additional stores in 2018. these store closings resulted in a decrease in the total amount of purchases made by macy's and j. c. penney, two of our ten largest customers in 2017. a continued decline in purchases made over the next several years could have a materially adverse effect on our united states wholesale business. we have an agreement with macy's pursuant to which macy's is the exclusive department store distributor in the united states of men's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand; g-iii, a licensee of the tommy hilfiger brand, has a similar arrangement with macy's for women's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. the term of our agreement ends on january 31, 2020. as a result of these strategic alliances, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american men's wholesale business and our licensed women's wholesale business with g-iii are substantially dependent on this relationship and on the ability of macy's to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. in addition, the united states men's and women's businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that macy's experiences, including any deterioration in the overall ability of macy's to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers, other than tommy hilfiger's strategic alliance with macy's, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. during the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. in addition, store closings by our customers, such as those described above, decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from calvin klein and tommy hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; retain key employees at our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's and tommy hilfiger's licensees; continue to enter into new, or renew or extend existing, license agreements for the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow the calvin klein or tommy hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 17 the success of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we have similar exposure with respect to the tommy hilfiger brands. mr. hilfiger, who remains active in the business, is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. we have retail stores located near vacation destinations and the majority of our united states retail stores are located away from major residential centers. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. additionally, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso and the chinese yuan renminbi, as was the case during 2015 and 2016, international tourism to the united states could be (and, in 2015 and 2016, was) reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales in our united states retail stores, which are material contributors of revenue and profits. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the store or mall, including the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the stores are located; the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the store or mall; the changing patterns of consumer shopping behavior; increased competition from online retailers; and the diversion of sales from our retail stores due to our digital commerce business. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the calvin klein, tommy hilfiger and warnaco acquisitions. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations affecting the acquired business; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; 18 retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products or be unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and control regulations. our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands business also has international components but those components are not significant to the business. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translation impact and a transaction impact. the translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our financial results, as our operating results in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. accordingly, our operating results will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the indian rupee, the russian ruble and the chinese yuan renminbi, and favorably impacted during times of a weakening united states dollar against those currencies. a transaction impact on financial results is common for apparel companies operating outside the united states that purchase goods in united states dollars, as is the case with most of our foreign operations. as with translation, our operating results will be impacted as fluctuations of the united states dollar change the local currency value of inventory, which results in a change in the cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany transactions and selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not generally exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as 19 a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. during 2015 and 2016, our results were negatively impacted significantly by the strong united states dollar. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our 950 million aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes. during times of a weakening united states dollar against the euro, we could be required to use a greater portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. we had outstanding as of february 4, 2018 an aggregate of $3.086 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, our senior unsecured notes and our secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facilities, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap agreement. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. the majority of our apparel and footwear products are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in europe, asia, the middle east, south america, the caribbean, central america and africa. although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundments of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; 20 a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; natural disasters, which could result in closed factories and scarcity of raw materials; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. the united states government recently indicated its intention to impose significant tariffs on goods imported from china into the united states. china is the largest sourcing country of apparel, footwear and accessories for us and most of our licensees. we imported approximately $400 million of inventory into the united states from china in 2017. enactment of such a proposal on apparel, footwear and accessories imported from china into the united states would result in an increase in our cost of goods sold for that product. we may not be able to shift production of inventory bound for the united states from china to other countries or pass the entire cost increase onto consumers, or could choose not to. any increase in prices to consumers could have an adverse impact on our direct sales to consumers, as well as sales by our wholesale customers and our licensees. any adverse impact on such sales or increase in our cost of goods sold could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees and the licensees themselves to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices. we audit, or have audited by third parties, the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we are a signatory of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers or licensees violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and manufacture our products and any disruption in our relationships with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the manufacturing of the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we use third party buying offices for a portion of our product sourcing. any interruption in the operations of these buying offices, or the failure of these buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. any disruption in our relationships with these buying offices or in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also rely on certain independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and our own retail stores, as well as perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual license or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensee, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensee's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the licensee), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensees' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensees could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty, advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensees' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensees to preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensees' use of our brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally premium pricing of calvin klein and tommy hilfiger brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. 22 the success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole and michael kors. in entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to reposition a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brand owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. we also face increased competition from online retailers in the digital channel, which is characterized by low barriers to entry. in addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers, as they also sell their own private label products in their stores and online. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes, demands and shopping preferences in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition, including an increased focus on digital brand engagement and social media presence; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space at retail and effective presentation of our products at retail and on our digital commerce sites. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we have made investments in our supply chain management systems and processes that enable us to respond more rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands and enhance our ability to manage inventory. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to changing consumer tastes and style trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not be able to manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our brands and our profitability. if we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we may not be able to have produced for us enough product to meet 23 consumer requirements in a timely manner, which could result in lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key executives in various areas of our businesses and operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change, as evidenced by the united states tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax legislation ) enacted in december 2017 that will significantly change the way we are taxed. moreover, there may be changes from time to time in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. the tax legislation requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in united states tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the new law, and the accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. the united states department of the treasury could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the tax legislation should be applied or otherwise administered that may be different from our interpretation. as we complete our analysis of the tax legislation, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the united states department of the treasury, the internal revenue service and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments in 2018 to the provisional amounts recorded in 2017 during the measurement period as allowed by the sec that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. we rely significantly on information technology. our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems, or systems of our business partners and service providers, are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we or they are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to manage and operate our business effectively depends significantly on information technology systems. the failure of any system to operate effectively or disruption in these systems could adversely impact our operations. the implementation of new systems also involves risks and uncertainties that could cause disruptions, delays or deficiencies that 24 could adversely impact our operations. in addition, intended improvements may not be realized. these risks pertain to both our systems and those of our business partners and service providers. our reliance on information technology also pertains to security breaches involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, as well as the ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations. there have been significant developments in the area of data privacy and cybersecurity and significant new laws are continuously being enacted and proposed around the world. in some instances, these laws and regulations could cause us to change the way we operate, including in a less efficient manner, in order to comply with local requirements. additionally, the loss or ransoming of data and systems could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with consumers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses, which can be significant, that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of our goodwill or an other intangible asset was to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. as of february 4, 2018 , we had approximately $3.835 billion of goodwill and $3.727 billion of other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represented 64% of our total assets. no impairment was recorded in 2017 based on our annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.risk factors 17 risk factors the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained within this report. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may occur or become material and may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers and the loss of any of these customers or significant financial difficulties in their businesses could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 18.9% of our revenue in each of 2018 and 2017, and 21.3% of our revenue in 2016. no single customer accounted for more than 10% 17 of our revenue in 2018, 2017 or 2016. collectively, macy's and j. c. penney company, inc. ( j. c. penney ), two of our ten largest customers in 2018, have closed over 200 stores since 2016 and will be closing additional stores. these store closings have resulted and may continue to result in a decrease in the total amount of purchases made by macy's and j. c. penney. a continued decline in purchases made over the next several years could have a materially adverse effect on our united states wholesale business. we had an agreement with macy's pursuant to which macy's was the exclusive department store distributor in the united states of men's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand; g-iii, a licensee of the tommy hilfiger brand, had a similar arrangement with macy's for women's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. as a result of these strategic alliances, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american men's wholesale business and its licensed women's wholesale business with g-iii were substantially dependent on these relationships and on the ability of macy's to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. the exclusive arrangements are both being terminated effective for the spring 2019 selling season. we cannot assure you that macy's will continue to order the same volume of tommy hilfiger products from us or our licensees or that other department stores will purchase tommy hilfiger products in sufficient volume to offset any reduction in sales to macy's. this could result in a decline in overall revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. the retail industry's recent history has seen a great deal of consolidation, particularly in the united states, and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. store closing programs, such as those described above, decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from tommy hilfiger and calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands; continue to maintain good working relationships with tommy hilfiger's and calvin klein's licensees; continue to enter into new, or renew or extend existing, license agreements for the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands; and continue to strengthen and expand the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow the tommy hilfiger or calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 18 the success of our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses depends on the value of our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the tommy hilfiger name is integral to the existing tommy hilfiger business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. mr. hilfiger, who remains active in the business, is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. we also have exposure with respect to the calvin klein brands, which are integral to the existing calvin klein business and could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. we have retail stores located near vacation destinations and the majority of our united states retail stores are located away from major residential centers. as a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if such events impact our higher-volume retail locations. additionally, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso and the chinese yuan renminbi, international tourism to the united states could be reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales in our united states retail stores, as they are material contributors of revenue and profits. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the store or mall, including the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the stores are located; the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the store or mall; the changing patterns of consumer shopping behavior; increased competition from online retailers; and the diversion of sales from our retail stores due to our digital commerce business. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the tommy hilfiger, calvin klein and warnaco acquisitions. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations affecting the acquired business; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; 19 retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under applicable regulation; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products or be unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us. financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers. future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises, including upon maturity, which for our senior secured credit facilities is currently scheduled for may 2021, or on terms that would be acceptable to us. our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and control regulations. our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands business also has international components but those components are not significant. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translational impact and a transactional impact. the translational impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our results of operations and financial position as our results of operations in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period and our assets and liabilities in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using the closing exchange rate at the balance sheet date. foreign exchange differences that arise from the translation of our foreign subsidiaries' assets and liabilities into united states dollars are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive (loss) income. accordingly, our results of operations and other comprehensive (loss) income will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, and favorably impacted during times of a weakening united states dollar against those currencies. a transactional impact on financial results is common for apparel companies operating outside the united states that purchase goods in united states dollars, as is the case with most of our foreign operations. as with translation, our results of operations will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening united states dollar as the increased local currency value of inventory results in a higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold and favorably impacted during times of a weakening united states dollar as the decreased local currency value of inventory results in a lower cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany transactions and selling, general and administrative (commonly referred to as sg&amp;a ) expenses. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. 20 we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not generally exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our 950 million aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes. during times of a weakening united states dollar against the euro, we could be required to use a greater amount of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments on our euro-denominated senior notes. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. we had outstanding as of february 3, 2019 an aggregate of $2.839 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, our senior unsecured notes and our secured debentures. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facilities, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap agreement. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. the majority of our apparel, footwear and accessories are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in asia, south america, europe, the middle east, north america, africa, central america and the caribbean. although no single supplier or country is or is expected to become critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; 21 heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundments of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns; a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; natural disasters, which could result in closed factories and scarcity of raw materials; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; and imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports. the united states government imposed tariffs in 2018 on a variety of imports from china into the united states, including certain categories of accessories, and may impose significant tariffs on additional goods imported from china into the united states. china is the largest sourcing country of apparel, footwear and accessories for us and most of our licensees. we imported approximately $400 million of inventory into the united states from china in 2018. accordingly, any tariffs on apparel, footwear and accessories imported from china into the united states result in an increase in our cost of goods sold for that product. we may not be able to shift production of inventory bound for the united states from china to other countries or pass the entire cost increase onto consumers or could choose not to. any increase in prices to consumers could have an adverse impact on our direct sales to consumers, as well as sales by our wholesale customers and our licensees. any adverse impact on such sales or increase in our cost of goods sold could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees and the licensees themselves to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices. we audit, or have third parties audit, the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we are a signatory of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers or licensees violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled and relationships could be terminated. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. 22 we are dependent on third parties to source and manufacture our products and any disruption in our relationships with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the manufacturing of the vast majority of our apparel, footwear and accessories. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we use third party buying offices for a portion of our product sourcing. any interruption in the operations of these buying offices, or the failure of these buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. any disruption in our relationships with these buying offices or in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also engage independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and our retail stores, as well as perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our wholesale customers and of our retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual license or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensee, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensee's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the licensee), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensees' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensees could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty, advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensees' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensees to preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensees' use of our brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally premium pricing of tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we 23 cannot assure you that other third parties will not seek to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brand owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. we also face increased competition from online retailers in the digital channel, which is characterized by low barriers to entry. in addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers, as they also sell their own private label products in their stores and online. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes, demands and shopping preferences in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition and relevance, including through digital brand engagement and online and social media presence; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space at retail and effective presentation of our products at retail and on our digital commerce sites. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers and changes in consumer demand. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we have made investments in our supply chain management systems and processes that enable us to respond more rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands and enhance our ability to manage inventory. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to changing consumer tastes and style trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not be able to manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our brands and our profitability. if we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we may not have sufficient inventories of product to meet consumer requirements in a timely manner, which could result in lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. 24 the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key executives in various areas of our businesses and operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change, as evidenced by the united states tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the u.s. tax legislation ) enacted in december 2017 that significantly changed the way we are taxed. moreover, there may be changes from time to time in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. we rely significantly on information technology. our business and reputation could be adversely impacted if our computer systems, or systems of our business partners and service providers, are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we or they are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to manage and operate our business effectively depends significantly on information technology systems. we process, transmit, store and maintain information about consumers and our employees in the ordinary course of business, including personally identifiable information protected under applicable laws. this includes the collection and processing of customers' credit and debit card numbers and reliance on systems maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide payment processing. the failure of any system to operate effectively or disruption in these systems could adversely impact our operations. we take, and require third party providers to take, measures to protect data but have no control over their efforts and are limited in our ability to assess their systems and processes. furthermore, while we invest, and believe our service providers invest, considerable resources in protecting systems and information, we all are still subject to security events, including but not limited to cybercrimes and cybersecurity attacks, such as those perpetrated by sophisticated and well-resourced bad actors attempting to disrupt operations or access or steal data. security events may not be detected for an extended period of time, which could compound the scope and extent of the damages and problems. such security events could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationship with consumers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability, which may not be covered by insurance or may result in costs in excess of the insurance coverage we maintain. 25 we regularly implement new systems and hardware and are currently undertaking a major upgrade of our platforms and systems worldwide. the implementation of new software and hardware involves risks and uncertainties that could cause disruptions, delays or deficiencies that could adversely impact our operations. in addition, intended improvements may not be realized. our business partners and service providers face the same risks, which could also adversely impact our business and operations. we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations, the number and complexity of which are increasing globally. we may be the subject of enforcement or other legal actions despite our compliance efforts. we collect, use, store, and otherwise process or rely upon access to data, including personally identifiable information, of consumers, employees, and other individuals in the daily conduct of our business. there have been significant developments in the area of data privacy and cybersecurity law and regulation. significant new laws, such as the european union's general data protection regulation, the brazilian general data protection law and the california consumer privacy act, are continuously being proposed and enacted around the world. these laws and regulations have and could continue to cause us to change the way we operate, including in a less efficient manner, in order to comply with local requirements. we have a privacy compliance program, but our compliance efforts are not an assurance that we will not be the subject of regulatory or other legal actions. we could expend significant management and associate time and incur significant cost investigating and defending ourselves against the claims in any such matter, which matters also could result in us being the subject of significant fines, judgments or settlements. in addition, any such claim could give rise to significant reputational damage, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending ourselves. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could increase substantially our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year. these gains and losses can be significant and can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying value of our goodwill or an other intangible asset were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. as of february 3, 2019 , we had approximately $3.671 billion of goodwill and $3.569 billion of other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represented 61% of our total assets. no impairment was recorded in 2018 based on our annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. 26 in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board. the united kingdom's proposed withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved a referendum to withdraw from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). subsequently, in march 2017, the united kingdom submitted a formal notification of its intention to withdraw from the european union, which began a two-year negotiation period that culminated in an agreement upon the withdrawal terms, which was subject to approval by british parliament. parliament rejected the agreement and the british prime minister requested an extension to june 30, 2019 of the march 29, 2019 effective date for brexit. on march 21, 2019, the leaders of the other member countries of the european union agreed to extend the deadline for brexit until april 12, 2019. however, if the british parliament approves the previously rejected terms of withdrawal, then the deadline would be further extended to may 22, 2019. additionally, if the united kingdom agrees to hold elections for european parliament that are scheduled for may 23, 2019, the deadline could be further extended. as a result, there remains considerable uncertainty around the withdrawal. if the british parliament does not agree to terms of withdrawal and the united kingdom does not agree to participate in the european parliament elections, the united kingdom would leave the european union on april 12, 2019 without an agreement. there is also significant discussion regarding submitting brexit to a second referendum. the uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. the withdrawal could also significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and may result in increased legal and regulatory complexities and higher costs of conducting business in europe. volatility in the value of the british pound sterling, the euro and other european currencies could also result. any of these effects, among others, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.risk factors 17 risk factors the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained within this report. the occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may occur or become material and may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers and the loss of any of these customers or significant financial difficulties in their businesses could substantially reduce our revenue. a few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. sales to our five largest customers were 18.4% of our revenue in 2019 and 18.9% of our revenue in each of 2018 and 2017. no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2019, 2018 or 2017. collectively, macy's, inc. ( macy's ) and j. c. penney corporation, inc. ( j. c. penney ), two of our ten largest customers in 2019, have closed approximately 275 stores since 2016 and macy's announced plans to close 125 additional stores over the next three years. these store closings have resulted and may continue to result in a decrease in the total amount of purchases made by macy's and j. c. penney. a continued decline in purchases made over the next several years could have a materially adverse effect on our united states wholesale business. we had an agreement with macy's pursuant to which macy's was the exclusive department store distributor in the united states of men's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand; g-iii, a licensee of the tommy hilfiger brand, had a similar arrangement with macy's for women's sportswear under the tommy hilfiger brand. as a result of these strategic alliances, the success of tommy hilfiger's north american men's wholesale business and its licensed women's wholesale business with g-iii were substantially dependent on these relationships and on the ability of macy's to maintain and increase sales of tommy hilfiger products. both exclusive arrangements were terminated effective for the spring 2019 selling season. we cannot assure you that macy's will continue to order the same volume of tommy hilfiger products from us, g-iii or our other tommy hilfiger licensees, or that other department stores will purchase tommy hilfiger products in sufficient volume to offset any reduction in sales to macy's in the future. this could result in a decline in overall revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. the retail industry's recent history has seen a great deal of consolidation, particularly in the united states, and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. store closing programs, such as those described above, decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to continue to develop and grow our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from tommy hilfiger and calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands; continue to maintain good working relationships with tommy hilfiger's and calvin klein's licensees; continue to enter into new, or renew or extend existing, licensing agreements for the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands; and 17 continue to strengthen and expand the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to continue to develop and grow the tommy hilfiger or calvin klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the success of our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses depends on the value of our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands and, if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the tommy hilfiger name is integral to the existing tommy hilfiger business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. mr. hilfiger, who remains active in the business, is closely identified with the tommy hilfiger brand and any negative perception with respect to mr. hilfiger could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger brands. in addition, under mr. hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the tommy hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. although mr. hilfiger could not use any tommy hilfiger trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the tommy hilfiger business. we also have exposure with respect to the calvin klein brands, which are integral to the existing calvin klein business and could be adversely affected if mr. klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. our business is heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. reduced consumer traffic and purchasing, whether in our own retail stores or in the stores of our wholesale customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. reductions could result from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks. disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, such as the current covid-19 outbreak, also could result in (and, in the case of the covid-19 outbreak, has resulted in) closed stores, reduced consumer traffic and purchasing, as consumers become ill or limit or cease shopping in order to avoid exposure, or governments impose mandatory business closures, travel restrictions or the like to prevent the spread of disease. additionally, political or civil unrests and demonstrations also could affect consumer traffic and purchasing, as was the case with the recent protests in hong kong sar. our u.s. retail store operations are a material contributor to our revenue and earnings. the majority of our united states retail stores are located away from major residential centers or near vacation destinations, making travel a critical factor in their success. these retail businesses historically also have had a significant portion of their revenue and earnings attributable to sales to international tourists. in addition to the factors discussed above, international tourism to the united states could be reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly the euro, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the korean won and the chinese yuan renminbi. a reduction in international tourist traffic or spending therefore could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in fact in 2019, we did experience a significant decrease in sales to international tourists, which we believe was attributable in part to the strength of the united states dollar and which negatively impacted sales and earnings for our calvin klein and tommy hilfiger retail businesses in the united states. other factors that could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the store or mall, including the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the stores are located; the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the store or mall; the changing patterns of consumer shopping behavior; increased competition from online retailers; and 18 the diversion of sales from our retail stores due to our digital commerce sites. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies. one component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the tommy hilfiger, calvin klein and warnaco acquisitions. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations affecting the acquired business; unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators; retaining key customers, suppliers and employees; retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; operating risks inherent in the acquired business; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence; the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under applicable regulation; and other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business. economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and licensees and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements, including, for example, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak. such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers and licensees, may cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products and licensed products sold by our licensees, and may result in customers being unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us and licensees being unable to pay us for royalties owed to us. financial difficulties of customers and licensees may also affect the ability of our customers and licensees to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers and licensees. future volatility in the financial and credit markets, including the recent volatility due, in part, to the current covid-19 outbreak, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises, including upon maturity, which for our senior unsecured credit facilities is currently scheduled for april 2024, or on terms that would be acceptable to us. 19 our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and control regulations. our tommy hilfiger and calvin klein businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. our heritage brands business also has international components but those components are not significant to the business. changes in exchange rates between the united states dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translational impact and a transactional impact. the translational impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our results of operations and financial position. the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are generally the applicable local currencies. our consolidated financial statements are presented in united states dollars. the results of operations in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period and our assets and liabilities in local foreign currencies are translated into united states dollars using the closing exchange rate at the balance sheet date. foreign exchange differences that arise from the translation of our foreign subsidiaries' assets and liabilities into united states dollars are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive (loss) income. accordingly, our results of operations and other comprehensive (loss) income will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening united states dollar, particularly against the euro, the brazilian real, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the korean won, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, and favorably impacted during times of a weakening united states dollar against those currencies. a transactional impact on financial results is common for apparel companies operating outside the united states that purchase goods in united states dollars, as is the case with most of our foreign operations. as with translation, our results of operations will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening united states dollar as the increased local currency value of inventory results in a higher cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold and favorably impacted during times of a weakening united states dollar as the decreased local currency value of inventory results in a lower cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany transactions and selling, general and administrative (commonly referred to as sg&amp;a ) expenses. we currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks. we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk in connection with our licensing businesses. most of our licensing agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in united states dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. thus, while we are not generally exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to changes in exchange rates during and up to the last day of the selling period. in addition, certain of our other foreign licensing agreements expose us to changes in exchange rates up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into united states dollars. as a result, during times of a strengthening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, and during times of a weakening united states dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted. we also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our 950 million aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes. during times of a strengthening united states dollar against the euro, we could be required to use a lower amount of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments on our euro-denominated senior notes, whereas during times of a weakening united states dollar against the euro, we could be required to use a greater amount of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments on these notes. we conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate. we had outstanding as of february 2, 2020 an aggregate principal amount of $2.725 billion of indebtedness under our senior unsecured credit facilities, our senior unsecured notes and our unsecured debentures. in march 2020, we increased our aggregate borrowings outstanding under our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, other short-term revolving credit facilities and unsecured commercial paper note program from $50 million at february 2, 2020 to approximately $930 million, in order to increase our cash position and preserve financial flexibility in responding to the impacts of the covid-19 outbreak on our business. our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, such as during the current covid-19 outbreak, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior unsecured credit facilities, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap agreement. in addition, our interest rate swap agreements as well as a portion of the borrowings under our senior unsecured credit facilities that have variable interest rates are tied to the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). in july 2017, the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom announced that it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, or whether different benchmark rates used to price indebtedness will develop. we cannot predict the consequences and timing of these developments, which could include an increase in interest expense and may also require the amendment of contracts that reference libor. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. the majority of our apparel, footwear and accessories are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in asia, south america, europe, the middle east, north america, africa, central america and the caribbean. although no single supplier or country is or is expected to become critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundments of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, including commodities (particularly cotton), or the ability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity; a significant increase in wage and shipping costs; 21 natural disasters, which could result in closed factories and scarcity of raw materials; disease epidemics and health related concerns, such as the current covid-19 outbreak, which could result in (and in the case of the covid-19 outbreak, has resulted in certain of the following) closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; and imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports. the united states government imposed tariffs in 2019 and 2018 on a variety of imports from china into the united states, including certain categories of apparel, footwear and accessories. these additional tariffs, which were included in a trade agreement signed by the united states and china in january 2020, are not expected to be decreased, at least not in the near term, and in the future the united states could impose additional tariffs or increase existing tariffs on goods imported from china into the united states. china is the largest sourcing country of apparel, footwear and accessories for us globally and for most of our licensees. we imported approximately $215 million of inventory into the united states from china in 2019. accordingly, any tariffs on apparel, footwear and accessories imported from china into the united states result in an increase in our cost of goods sold for that product. we are looking at alternative sourcing options but we may not be able to shift production of inventory bound for the united states from china to other countries. in addition, higher costs in sourcing from other countries, including because others in the industry are looking to move production for the same reason, may make the move price-prohibitive. we may not be able to pass the entire cost increase resulting from the tariffs onto consumers or could choose not to. any increase in prices to consumers could have an adverse impact on our direct sales to consumers, as well as sales by our wholesale customers and our licensees. any adverse impact on such sales or increase in our cost of goods sold could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees and the licensees themselves to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices. we audit, or have third parties audit, the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. we were a member of the accord on fire and building safety in bangladesh and are a member of its successor, the mission of each of which is to improve fire and building safety in bangladesh's apparel factories. we also collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. however, we do not control our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. if any of these manufacturers or licensees violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled and relationships could be terminated. further, we could be prohibited from importing goods by governmental authorities. in addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties to source and manufacture our products and any disruption in our relationships with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses. we rely upon independent third parties for the manufacturing of the vast majority of our apparel, footwear and accessories. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner, which has occurred, and may occur in the future, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak, or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations. 22 we use third party buying offices for a portion of our product sourcing. any interruption in the operations of these buying offices, or the failure of these buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. any disruption in our relationships with these buying offices or in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. we are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. if one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. we operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also engage independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and our retail stores, as well as perform related logistics services. our ability to meet the needs of our wholesale customers and of our retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. if any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible, including as a result of disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, such as the current covid-19 outbreak, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing. the operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant licensee, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensee's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the licensee), without an equivalent replacement, or a significant decline in our licensees' sales, for example as occurred as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak, could materially impact our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our licensees' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensees could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty, advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with our licensees' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers. our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. we rely on our licensees to preserve the value of our brands. although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensees' use of our brands. the misuse of our brands by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally premium pricing of tommy hilfiger and calvin klein brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. we cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. we cannot assure you that other third parties will not seek to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have 23 prior rights to similar trademarks. we have in the past been and currently are involved both domestically and internationally in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to some of our trademarks or marks similar to some of our brands. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is intense in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brand owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. we also face increased competition from online retailers in the digital channel, which is characterized by low barriers to entry. in addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers, as they also sell their own private label products in their stores and online. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes, demands and shopping preferences in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition and relevance, including through digital brand engagement and online and social media presence; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space at retail and effective presentation of our products at retail, on digital commerce sites operated by our department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers, and on our digital commerce sites. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. the apparel industry, particularly in the united states (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers and changes in consumer demand including, for example, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak. these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we have made and continue to make investments in our supply chain management systems and processes that enable us to respond more rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands and enhance our ability to manage inventory. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to changing consumer tastes and style trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not be able to manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. if we are unable to or fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, including, for example, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet demand. inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our brands and our profitability. if we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we may not have sufficient inventories of product to meet consumer requirements in a timely manner, which could result in lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships. we rely significantly on information technology. our business and reputation could be adversely impacted if our computer systems, or systems of our business partners and service providers, are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we or they are subject to a data security or privacy breach. our ability to manage and operate our business effectively depends significantly on information technology systems, including systems operated by third parties and us and systems that communicate with third parties, including website and mobile applications through which we communicate with our consumers and our employees. we process, transmit, store and maintain information about consumers, employees, and other individuals in the ordinary course of business, including through our digital 24 commerce operations. this includes personally identifiable information protected under applicable laws and the collection and processing of customers' credit and debit card numbers and reliance on systems maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide payment processing. the failure of any system to operate effectively or disruption in these systems, which may occur as a result of circumstances beyond our control including fire, natural disasters, power outages and systems disruptions, could require significant remediation costs and adversely impact our operations. we take, and require third party providers to take, measures to protect data but have no control over their efforts and are limited in our ability to assess their systems and processes. furthermore, while we invest, and believe our service providers invest, considerable resources in protecting systems and information, we all are still subject to security events, including but not limited to cybercrimes and cybersecurity attacks, such as those perpetrated by sophisticated and well-resourced bad actors attempting to disrupt operations or access or steal data. security events may not be detected for an extended period of time, which could compound the scope and extent of the damages and problems. such security events could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationship with consumers, and expose us to risks of litigation and liability, which may not be covered by insurance or may result in costs in excess of the insurance coverage we maintain. we regularly implement new systems and hardware and are currently undertaking a major multi-year sap s/4 implementation to upgrade of our platforms and systems worldwide. the implementation of new software and hardware involves risks and uncertainties that could cause disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design, implementation or application of these systems including: adversely impacting our operations; increased costs; disruptions in our ability to effectively source, sell or ship our products; delays in collecting payments from our customers; and adversely affecting our ability to timely report our financial results. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected as a result of these implementations. in addition, intended improvements may not be realized. our business partners and service providers face the same risks, which could also adversely impact our business and operations. we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations, the number and complexity of which are increasing globally. we may be the subject of enforcement or other legal actions despite our compliance efforts. we collect, use, store, and otherwise process or rely upon access to data, including personally identifiable information, of consumers, employees, and other individuals in the daily conduct of our business, including through our digital commerce operations. there have been significant developments in the area of data privacy and cybersecurity law and regulation. significant new laws, such as the european union's general data protection regulation, the brazilian general data protection law and the california consumer privacy act, are continuously being proposed and enacted around the world. these laws and regulations have caused and could continue to cause us to change the way we operate, including in a less efficient manner, in order to comply with local requirements. we have a privacy compliance program but our compliance efforts are not an assurance that we will not be the subject of regulatory or other legal actions. we could expend significant management and associate time and incur significant cost investigating and defending ourselves against the claims in any such matter, which matters also could result in us being the subject of significant fines, judgments or settlements. in addition, any such claim could give rise to significant reputational damage, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending ourselves. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key executives in various areas of our businesses and operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. 25 a significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. we have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. as a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. in addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change. moreover, there may be changes from time to time in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. as a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the authorities in an adverse manner. in addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. the resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period. we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. if we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced. our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. these assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. in assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. these factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability. volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could increase substantially our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities. we have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. the funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. unfavorable returns on plan assets, which, for example, may result from recent market volatility due, in part, to the covid-19 outbreak, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business. our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year. these gains and losses can be significant and can create volatility in our operating results. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. a decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying amount of our goodwill or another intangible asset were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations, including, for example, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak, may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. 26 as of february 2, 2020 , we had approximately $3.678 billion of goodwill and $3.481 billion of other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represented 53% of our total assets. no impairment was recorded in 2019 based on our annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests. however, during the fourth quarter of 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our speedo north america business, which prompted the need for us to perform an interim impairment assessment of our speedo perpetual license right. as a result of this interim test, the perpetual license right was determined to be impaired and an impairment charge of $116.4 million was recorded. the speedo transaction was also a triggering event that prompted the need for us to perform an interim goodwill impairment test for the heritage brands wholesale reporting unit, the reporting unit that includes the speedo north america business. no goodwill impairment resulted from this interim test. our balance sheet includes a significant amount of long-lived assets in our retail stores, including operating lease right-of-use assets and property, plant and equipment. a decline in the current and projected cash flows in our retail stores could result in impairment charges, which could be material. long-lived assets, such as operating lease right-of-use assets and property, plant and equipment in our retail stores, are tested for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value and an impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations, including, for example, as a result of the current covid-19 outbreak, may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets. provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporation law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions requiring stockholders who seek to introduce proposals at a stockholders meeting or nominate a person to become a director to provide us with advance notice and certain information, as well as meet certain ownership criteria; permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board; and authorizing the board to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could harm our business and financial results. voters in the united kingdom approved a referendum to withdraw from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). the united kingdom formally withdrew from the european union on january 31, 2020 and is now in a period of transition until december 31, 2020. during the transition period, the united kingdom's trading relationship with the european union is expected to remain largely the same while the two parties negotiate a trade agreement as well as other aspects of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union after december 31, 2020 and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products. the eventual terms upon which the withdrawal occurs (which could leave the united kingdom without a trade agreement with the european union) also could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and may result in increased legal and regulatory complexities and higher costs of conducting business in europe. volatility in the value of the british pound sterling, the euro and other european currencies could also result. any of these effects, among others, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading market risk in item 7.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading "market risk" in item 7.risk factors our substantial level of debt could impair our financial condition. we currently have a substantial amount of debt. our significant level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, therefore reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; and any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including our revolving credit facility, leave us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally. we may not be able to continue to realize revenue growth from calvin klein. a significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our calvin klein business. our realization of revenue growth from calvin klein will depend largely upon our ability to: continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identity of calvin klein; continue to maintain good working relationships with calvin klein's licensees; continue to enter into new licensing agreements for the calvin klein brands, both domestically and internationally; successfully design and market the calvin klein men's better sportswear line over time; and continue to open calvin klein retail outlet stores in premium outlet malls and successfully operate over time a chain of such stores. we cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for the calvin klein brands, nor can we assure you that the launch of any calvin klein branded products by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space and develop new relationships with apparel retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. if we fail to develop and grow successfully the calvin 17 klein business, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. a substantial portion of our revenues and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers and the loss of any of these customers could substantially reduce our revenues. a few of our customers, including federated department stores, inc., j. c. penney company, inc., kohl's corporation and wal-mart stores, inc., account for significant portions of our revenues. sales to our five largest customers were 34.3% of our revenues in fiscal 2005, 28.8% of our revenues in fiscal 2004 and 27.2% of our revenues in fiscal 2003. federated, our largest customer, accounted for 13.7% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. we do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. a decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other business partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other business partners, could substantially reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our profitability. the retail industry has recently experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes to be ongoing. for example, in august 2005, federated acquired the may department stores company and is in the process of closing 79 stores. store closings will decrease the number of stores carrying our apparel products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. federated may also close additional stores, which could further reduce our revenues. in the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry, in each case having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. these changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by financial instability experienced by our customers. during the past several years, various retailers have experienced significant financial difficulties, which have resulted in bankruptcies, liquidations and store closings. we sell our products primarily to national and regional department, mid-tier department and mass market stores in the united states on credit and evaluate each customer's financial condition on a regular basis in order to determine the credit risk we take in selling goods to them. the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer and we may be unable to shift sales to another viable customer. we may also assume more credit risk relating to receivables of a customer experiencing financial instability. should these circumstances arise with respect to our customers, our inability to shift sales or to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of our customers could substantially reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations. during 2005, in excess of 95% of our apparel products and 95% of our raw materials for apparel were produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in the far east, indian subcontinent, the middle east, the caribbean and central america. we believe that we are one of the largest procurers of shirting fabric in the world. additionally, our footwear products and the raw materials therefor were produced by and purchased or procured from manufacturers located principally in countries in the far east, europe, south america and the caribbean. although no single supplier and no one country is critical to our production needs, any of 18 the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: political or labor instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; political or military conflict involving the united states, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs; heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands; a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials, particularly petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, which are currently in high demand; disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the sars outbreak and the mad cow and hoof-and-mouth disease outbreaks in recent years and current concerns over an avian flu pandemic, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; the migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced; imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed; imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; significant fluctuation of the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located. if our manufacturers fail to use acceptable ethical business practices, our business could suffer. we require our manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers to determine compliance. however, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. if one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the united states, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage customer relationships. in 2005, we relied upon independent third parties for the manufacture of more than 95% of our apparel products and 100% of our footwear products. on march 6, 2006, we committed to a plan to close our apparel manufacturing facility in ozark, alabama by may 15, 2006. as a result, 100% of our products will be produced by independent third parties. we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. a manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet 19 required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. as a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues is dependent on royalties and licensing. in 2005, $211.6 million, or 11.1%, of our revenues were derived from licensing royalties and other revenues, principally in our calvin klein licensing segment. royalty and other revenues from calvin klein's three largest business partners accounted for approximately 55% of its royalty and other revenues in 2005. this concentration will increase as a result of warnaco's acquisition of the licensees of jeanswear in europe and asia and bridge apparel and accessories in europe. those licensees, which were controlled by the fratini family, accounted for approximately 11% of the segment's 2005 royalty and other revenues; warnaco accounted for another 28%. we also derive licensing revenues from our van heusen, izod, izod g, g.h. bass &amp; co. and arrow brand names, as well as from sublicensing of geoffrey beene, bcbg max azria, bcbg attitude and donald j. trump signature collection. our three largest licensing partners accounted for approximately 35.5% of licensing revenue for these brand names as a group in 2005. the operating profit associated with our royalty and other revenues is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual licensing or similar agreement are minimal. therefore, the loss of a significant business partner, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the business partner's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the partner), without an equivalent replacement, could materially affect our profitability. while we generally have significant control over our business partners' products and advertising, we rely on our business partners for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. our business partners' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing business partners could materially and adversely affect our revenues both directly from reduced royalty and other revenues received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. risks are also associated with a business partner's ability to: obtain capital; execute its business plans, including timely delivery of quality products; manage its labor relations; maintain relationships with its suppliers; manage its credit risk effectively; and maintain relationships with its customers. in addition, we rely on our business partners to preserve the value of our brands. although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control the use by our business partners of each of our licensed brands. the misuse of our brands by a business partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, calvin klein in the past has been involved in legal proceedings with warnaco with respect to certain quality and distribution issues. as a result of our acquisition of calvin klein in 2003, warnaco is entitled to control design and advertising related to the sale of underwear, intimate apparel and sleepwear products bearing the calvin klein brands, although to date, it has only exercised this right with respect to design. we cannot assure you that warnaco will continue to maintain the same standards of design and, if it assumes control, 20 advertising previously maintained by calvin klein, although we believe they are generally obligated to do so. our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop. our retail stores are located principally in outlet malls, which are typically located in or near vacation destinations or away from large population centers where department stores and other traditional retailers are concentrated. as a result, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including as a result of war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks, which would lead to decreased travel, could have a material adverse affect on us. other factors which could affect the success of our stores include: the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; the other tenants occupying space at the mall; increased competition in areas where the outlet malls are located; a downturn in the economy generally or in a particular area where an outlet mall is located; and the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls. we may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. we are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. since our acquisition of calvin klein in 2003, we are more susceptible to infringement of our intellectual property rights, as the calvin klein brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of calvin klein branded products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenues. we cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. in addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license and/or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. in some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. for example, we were involved in a proceeding relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the izod mark in mexico, and calvin klein was involved in a proceeding relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the calvin klein mark in chile. we are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally. the success of calvin klein depends on the value of our calvin klein brands, and if the value of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected. our success depends on our brands and their value. the calvin klein name is integral to the existing calvin klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand calvin klein. the calvin klein brands could be adversely affected if mr. calvin klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. we may seek in the future stockholder approval to change the name of our company to "calvin klein inc." or a similar name. any such name change could increase our risks related to the public perception of the calvin klein name. 21 our success is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors. our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. this strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. as part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including kenneth cole, max azria, michael kors, sean "diddy" combs (sean john), donald j. trump and joseph abboud. in entering into these license agreements, we plan our products to be targeted towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. if any of our licensors determines to "re-position" a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. in addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images or reputations were to be negatively impacted. our revenues and profits are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending patterns. the apparel and footwear industries in which we operate have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations and are particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy, with consumer spending tending to decline during recessionary periods. the success of our operations depends on consumer spending. consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment, wages and salaries), business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and tax rates in the general economy and in the international, regional and local markets where our products are sold. any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers' use of credit. in addition, war, terrorist activity or the threat of war and terrorist activity could adversely affect consumer spending, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face intense competition in the apparel industry. competition is strong in the apparel industry. we compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brands, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which are significantly larger or more diversified or have greater resources than we do. in addition, through their use of private label programs, we compete directly with our wholesale customers. we compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of: anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products; maintaining favorable brand recognition; appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers; providing strong and effective marketing support; ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. the failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we 22 misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities with others. the loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. we also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. competition for qualified personnel in the apparel and footwear industries is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits and synergies. one component of our growth strategy contemplates our making select acquisitions if appropriate opportunities arise. prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities. however, these benefits may not be realized due to, among other things: delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets; higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; diversion of the attention and resources of management; consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees; inability to retain key employees in acquired companies; and assumption of liabilities unrecognized in due diligence. we cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our segment reporting has changed and the sec may request further changes that would require us to restate segment information that appears in the notes to our financial statements. we manage our business through operating divisions that are aggregated into four reportable segments: wholesale, retail apparel and related products, retail footwear and related products and calvin klein licensing. this segment reporting is first being shown in this report. we changed our reporting from two segments apparel and related products and calvin klein licensing in response to comments we received from the sec in connection with an ordinary course review of our annual report on form 10-k for our fiscal year ended january 30, 2005. in its comments, the sec has questioned whether we need to report additional segments to satisfy the requirements of financial accounting standards board (fasb) statement no. 131. we believe the four segments that we are now reporting satisfy the requirements of fasb statement no. 131. as of april 13, 2006, we are continuing to discuss with the sec our segment reporting. if, as a result of these discussions, it is concluded that further segments need to be reported, we will be required to restate segment information that appears throughout our notes to financial statements and file an amendment to this annual report on form 10-k for our 2005 fiscal year. the restatement of the notes to our financial statements to report different segments and segment information could materially and adversely affect our stock price. future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, by us or by a major stockholder (including pursuant to a registration rights agreement we have with the 23 holders of our series b convertible preferred stock), could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. our stockholder rights plan, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and delaware general corporate law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock. we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that, subject to certain limitations, limits the ability of any person to acquire more than 20% of our common stock. our stockholder rights plan could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or the removal of management, of deterring potential acquirers from making an offer to our stockholders and of limiting any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices for our common stock. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations with beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding stock entitled to vote for election of directors, permitting the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board and authorizing the board of directors to issue additional shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. these provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporate law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. the existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the board of directors. significant influence by certain stockholders. in connection with our acquisition of calvin klein, affiliates of apax managers, inc. and apax partners europe managers limited purchased $250 million of our series b convertible preferred stock. during 2005, the apax affiliates voluntarily converted a portion of such series b convertible preferred stock, as further discussed in note 10, "series b convertible preferred stock," in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report. as of january 29, 2006, the remaining series b convertible preferred stock held by the apax affiliates had liquidation preference of $161.9 million and was convertible by them into 21.1% of our outstanding common stock. if we elect not to pay a cash dividend for any quarter, then the series b convertible preferred stock will be treated for purposes of the payment of future dividends and upon conversion, redemption or liquidation as if an in-kind dividend has been paid. pursuant to the investors' rights agreement we have with the apax affiliates, the holders of our series b convertible preferred stock are generally prohibited from initiating a takeover of us. in certain circumstances, the apax affiliates may be able to participate in a bidding process initiated by a third party. as long as apax affiliates own at least 50% of the shares of our series b convertible preferred stock initially sold to the apax affiliates, they will have the ability to prevent a change of control, or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. as of january 29, 2006, the apax affiliates owned approximately 61% of the shares of our series b convertible preferred stock initially issued to them. additionally, as long as 50% of our series b convertible preferred stock remains outstanding, the holders of our series b convertible preferred stock will have a right to purchase their pro rata share of newly issued securities. the holders of our series b convertible preferred stock have certain additional rights, including the right to approve the issuance of certain new series of our preferred stock, which could also have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover, and preventing changes in control, of us. prior to the conversion of a portion of our series b convertible preferred stock during 2005, the apax affiliates had the right to elect separately as a class three directors and to have one of their 24 directors serve on the audit, compensation, nominating and executive committees of our board, subject to applicable law, rule and regulation; current regulation precludes service on the audit committee. in connection with the conversion, the remaining preferred stockholders agreed to reduce their right to elect directors from three directors to two directors and to further reduce this right to one director if they did not have more than one director elected as of december 31, 2005. the remaining preferred stockholders did not elect an additional director as of december 31, 2005 and, as such, only one such director can be and is currently elected. if the apax affiliates continue to own at least 10% of the series b convertible preferred stock issued in connection with the acquisition of calvin klein they will maintain their right to elect separately as a class one director. however, the right of the series b convertible preferred stockholders to elect a director will be terminated if the previously announced acquisition of the tommy hilfiger corporation by certain affiliates of the apax affiliates is consummated. as a result of these and other rights related to their ownership of our series b convertible preferred stock, the apax affiliates have substantial influence over us. the interests of the apax affiliates or the holders of series b convertible preferred stock may at any time conflict with, or diverge from, those of our other stockholders. the apax affiliates or such other series b convertible preferred stockholders, by virtue of their large percentage of voting rights and the terms of the series b convertible preferred stock, will be able to substantially influence, and may effectively be able to prevent or veto, certain corporate actions, such as the sale of our company, the issuance of a new class or series of our stock in connection with a corporate transaction or other major corporate action. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information with respect to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk appears under the heading "market risk interest and exchange rate sensitivity" in item 7.