risk factors 13 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to our company competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than 13 table of contents we, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies by these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. moreover, several of our major markets are mature. our products also compete for consumers against non-beer products such as wine, spirits and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. our molson canadian and coors light brands in canada, miller lite and coors light brands in the u.s., and carling brand in the u.k. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2012 . consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics or perceived value. beer consumption in many of our markets is also tied to general economic conditions. difficult macro-economic conditions in our markets may result in lower sales volume. if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board. in addition, our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of one or more reporting segments. for example, miller brewing company ( miller ) has notified us of its intent to terminate the license agreement between miller and us in canada, which could have an adverse impact on our canadian volumes. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. examples of this are the recently announced increase in beer excise tax rates of over 20% in qu bec and a 50% 14 table of contents increase to the statutory corporate income tax rate in serbia. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar, british pound and our central european operating currencies such as, but not limited to, euro, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu and bulgarian lev. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the u.k and throughout central europe. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, the success of our company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in canada, the united kingdom, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 60%, 35% and 25% of our canadian, millercoors and u.k. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. a labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors and, consequently, mcbc. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. 15 table of contents because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. if one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. additionally, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of outside parties attempting to breach our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business information and disruption of our operations. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. potential resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. our most recent impairment analysis indicated that the fair value of our u.k. and canada reporting units were close to failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. the fair value of the u.k. reporting unit and the canada reporting unit were estimated at approximately 7% and 15% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. in addition, the fair value of the molson core brands was estimated at approximately 14% in excess of its carrying value. the reporting units and molson core brands are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows, terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. additionally, we have identified risks to our central europe reporting unit due to weak economic conditions within the regions in which we operate, as well as risks related to the possible termination of our license agreement with miller in canada. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. as a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there are also water availability risks. climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint ventures competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our millercoors joint venture in the united states and puerto rico with sabmiller. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships and adversely affect our results of operations. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or 16 table of contents to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, during 2012, we decided to terminate our joint venture in china due to the failure of our joint venture partner to meet its obligations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. our operations outside of north america and the u.k. expose us to additional risks which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect our operations outside of north america and the u.k. to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. loss of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our business. our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. impacts of the acquisition on our financial position. as a result of the acquisition, the already significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements increased. such amounts are subject to impairment assessments based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. in addition, we incurred a significant amount of additional indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. after giving effect to our $1.9 billion senior notes offering, borrowings under the new credit and term loan agreements in connection with the acquisition and the issuance of the convertible note to the seller, we have outstanding $4,668 million of indebtedness as of december 29, 2012 , and the ability to incur up to an additional 150 million, $550 million and $400 million of indebtedness under our revolving credit facilities. we may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future. as a result of the debt that we incurred in connection with the acquisition, we have suspended share repurchases until our credit metrics are closer to pre-acquisition levels, and there can be no assurance that our credit ratings will remain at an investment grade level or that they will improve. additionally, any deterioration of our current credit rating from an investment grade level could result in less than favorable terms of future debt issuances, which may be necessary to support the ongoing needs of the business, fund future capital investments or acquisitions or refinance terms of our debt obligations currently outstanding. we also intend to use cash from operations to reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other purposes and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. in addition, our indebtedness also subjects us to financial and operating covenants, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial ratios or if we breach any of the other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience continued price discounting in canada. the continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, could adversely impact our business. in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents more than 40% of total volume sales in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. 17 table of contents risks specific to the united states segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller, and hold a 42% economic interest. millercoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of millercoors. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. we may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from millercoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies and other aspects of the operations. the millercoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating ours and sabmiller's u.s. operations, technologies and services, as well as the distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the millercoors joint venture. the failure of millercoors to successfully integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the central europe segment we may not recognize the benefits of the acquisition. we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating mcce's business with our existing businesses. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the difficulties of integrating the operations of mcce's business include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between mcce's structure and our structure; failure to retain key customers and suppliers; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; failure to retain key employees; operating risks inherent in mcce's business and our business; unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; unfamiliarity with operating in central europe. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of molson coors and mcce had achieved or might achieve separately. in addition, we may not accomplish the integration of mcce's business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. moreover, the markets in which mcce operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any further economic downturn affecting europe could negatively impact mcce's business. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which molson coors has historically operated. if we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the mcce business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in such case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. we face risks associated with the sale and purchase agreement ("spa") in connection with the acquisition. in connection with the acquisition, we assumed substantially all the liabilities of mcce that were not satisfied on or prior to the closing date. there may be liabilities that we underestimated or did not discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigation of mcce. under the spa and a management warranty deed (the "management warranty deed"), the seller has agreed to provide us with a limited set of representations and warranties. our sole remedy from the seller for any breach of those representations and warranties is an action for indemnification, not to exceed 100 million under the spa and 50 million under the management warranty deed. damages resulting from a breach of a representation or warranty could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents economic trends and intense competition in certain central european markets could unfavorably impact our profitability. our central european businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. during 2012, real gross domestic product declined in most of the major central european markets in which we operate. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our central european markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in central europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. risks specific to the united kingdom segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact our ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. in the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider for the distribution of our products in the united kingdom. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for us in the u.k., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. due to product price, local competition and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. in addition, compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations, and u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in some international jurisdictions. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative impact on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, 19 table of contents however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier- and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates, and libor. to mitigate this exposure and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. the primary foreign currency exposures for which we hedge our risk are the cad and gbp as of december 29, 2012. we manage this exposure through foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency swaps. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts, and over-the-counter swaps. 61 table of contents details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments, are included in the table below. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 29, 2012 december 31, 2011 december 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate notes, due 2012 (45.7 ) $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013 575.0 575.0 (588.6 ) (608.5 ) 500 million, 0.0% convertible notes due 2013 660.8 660.8 (662.5 ) cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015 902.7 902.7 (983.7 ) (971.9 ) cad 500 million, 3.95% fixed rate series a notes, due 2017 501.5 501.5 (534.8 ) (507.5 ) $300 million 2.0% notes due 2017 300.0 300.0 (310.0 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 500.0 500.0 (534.0 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 1,100.0 1,100.0 (1,247.2 ) 120 million term loan due 2016 5.2 15.9 102.8 123.9 (123.9 ) other long-term debt 0.5 0.5 (0.6 ) foreign currency management: forwards 251.4 255.9 507.3 (1.7 ) 2.2 cross currency swaps(1) 603.1 603.1 (220.4 ) (311.9 ) commodity pricing management: swaps (notional in kwh) 324.1 162.0 486.1 (0.9 ) (2.3 ) swaps (notional in mt, rounds to zero) (1.6 ) (4.6 ) equity management: equity conversion feature of debt 660.8 660.8 (7.9 ) (1) our cross currency swaps consist of a series of contracts with a net position of pay gbp 398 million, receive usd $580 million for the swaps executed in 2002 and a net position of pay cad 901 million, receive gbp 398 million for the swaps executed in 2007. on an aggregate basis, the gbp pay leg of the 2002 swaps and the gbp receive leg of the 2007 swaps offset leaving a series of net pay cad, receive usd swaps. approximately one-third of these swaps were settled in may 2012 and the remainder mature in march 2014. these swaps are used to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to our investment in our canadian operations. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 "derivatives instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. 62 table of contents we have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices. the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. as of december 29, 2012 december 31, 2011 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (82.0 ) $ (72.6 ) swaps $ (57.8 ) $ (46.4 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (228.6 ) $ (106.7 ) equity conversion feature of debt $ (5.6 ) $ interest rate risk: debt $ (114.5 ) $ (17.5 ) swaps $ (25.4 ) $ (44.4 ) commodity price risk: swaps $ (1.4 ) $ (2.7 ) equity price risk: equity conversion feature of debt $ (13.5 ) $ 63 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to our company competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, distributor consolidation could have a long-term material adverse effect on our business by diminishing our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. these factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive 13 table of contents within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our molson canadian and coors light brands in canada, miller lite and coors light brands in the u.s., and carling, jelen, staropramen, and ozujsko brands in europe represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2013 . additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. additionally, in our major markets there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products could result in a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our brand portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decrease in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse impact on class b stockholders. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging 14 table of contents materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, subsequent to abi's acquisition of grupo modelo, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our mmi joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our canadian volumes. additionally, miller brewing company ( miller ) has notified us of its intent to terminate the license agreement between miller and us in canada, which, if the termination is upheld or the parties fail to resolve the dispute through negotiation, could have an adverse impact on our canadian volumes. further, tradeteam exclusively handles all of the physical distribution for our products in the u.k., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our u.k. operations that could have an adverse financial impact to our business and financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. examples of this are the recent changes in the canadian tax legislation and u.k. statutory tax rate increases. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, but not limited to, british pound, euro, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical 15 table of contents events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, the success of our company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in canada, the united kingdom, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 60%, 36% and 26% of our canadian, millercoors and u.k. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. in addition, a number of our central european employees are represented by trade councils. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. a labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business and financial results. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors and, consequently, mcbc. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri in ontario and bdl in the western provinces, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. if one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. additionally, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of outside parties attempting to breach our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business or employee information and disruption of our operations. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of june 30, 2013, the first day of our third quarter, indicated that the fair value of our europe and canada reporting units were close to failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. the fair value of the europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 11% and 16% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. in 16 table of contents addition, we determined that the fair value of our jelen and ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets within our europe segment were below their respective carrying values as of june 30, 2013. as a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $150.9 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2013. the aggregate fair value of the jelen , ozujsko and branik indefinite-lived brands in europe, at the valuation date, was estimated at approximately 1% in excess of the aggregate carrying value. further, the fair value of the molson core brands was estimated at approximately 10% in excess of its carrying value. the europe and canada reporting units, and the jelen , ozujsko and branik brands in europe and molson core brands in canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including significant delays in projected macroeconomic recovery or prolonged adverse economic conditions), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. we have also identified risks related to the possible termination of our license agreement with miller in canada, which resulted in an impairment of our related definite-lived intangible asset during the fourth quarter 2013. additionally, the results of our annual testing determined that the indefinite-life classification could no longer be supported for the ostravar brand. the ostravar brand has therefore been reclassified as a definite-lived intangible asset and the remaining fair value of the asset will be amortized over its estimated remaining life. any future impairment of the jelen , ozujsko , branik , molson or other brands, or reclassification of additional brands from indefinite-lived to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. as a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and financial results. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint ventures competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our millercoors joint venture in the united states and puerto rico with sabmiller. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, in december 2013 we sold our interest in our mc si'hai joint venture in china, following the failure of our partner to meet its obligations in 2012. additionally, we have entered into an agreement to 17 table of contents accelerate the termination of our mmi joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our canadian volumes and financial results. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. our operations outside of north america and the u.k. expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations outside of north america and the u.k. to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative impact on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. loss of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. in addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of mcbc brands if production capacity is limited. failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience adverse impacts to our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes in quebec, could decrease our net sales. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. 18 table of contents in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents more than 43% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. risks specific to the united states segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. while we direct the millercoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with sabmiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, millercoors' management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. as a result, we do not have full control over millercoors' activities. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. each party to the millercoors joint venture agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period of five years from july 1, 2008. with the expiration of the restriction in 2013, both parties to the joint venture are now able to transfer their economic and voting interest. certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the europe segment we may not recognize the benefits of the acquisition. we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. the long-term success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating central europe's business with our existing businesses. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. the difficulties of recognizing the potential benefits of the acquisition include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, procurement, communications and other systems; possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures between central europe's structure and our structure; failure to retain key customers and suppliers; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; operating risks inherent in central europe's business and our business; unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of molson coors and central europe had achieved or might achieve separately. in addition, we may not accomplish the integration of central europe's business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. moreover, the markets in which central europe operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any further economic downturn affecting europe could negatively impact central europe's business. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which molson coors has historically operated. if we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the central europe business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in such case, our business and financial results may be materially adversely impacted. 19 table of contents economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably impact our profitability. our european businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. as a result of our annual impairment testing, we determined that the fair value of our jelen and ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values as of june 30, 2013. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2013. the decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to the continued weakening of the current macro-economic environment in certain european markets. our impairment testing also indicated risk of additional future impairments of jelen and other indefinite-lived intangible brands sold in these markets. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. in the event that a significant pub chain was to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to decrease since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. due to product price, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates, euribor and libor. to mitigate this exposure and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. the primary foreign currency exposures for which we hedge our risk are the cad and eur. we manage this exposure through foreign currency forward contracts, cross currency swaps and foreign-denominated debt. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter swaps. 63 table of contents details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts are presented in the unit of measure and currency in which the respective instrument was issued with the exception of forwards in which all outstanding notional amounts have been aggregated and presented in usd. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2013 december 29, 2012 december 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (1) fair value(1) (in millions) long-term debt: $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013 $ $ (588.6 ) 500 million, 0.0% convertible notes due 2013 44.9 44.9 $ (61.8 ) $ (662.5 ) cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015 900.0 900.0 $ (903.7 ) $ (983.7 ) cad 500 million, 3.95% fixed rate series a notes, due 2017 500.0 500.0 $ (494.3 ) $ (534.8 ) $300 million 2.0% notes due 2017 300.0 300.0 $ (304.3 ) $ (310.0 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 500.0 500.0 $ (496.3 ) $ (534.0 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 1,100.0 1,100.0 $ (1,098.5 ) $ (1,247.2 ) 120 million term loan due 2016 $ $ (123.9 ) other long-term debt 0.2 0.2 $ (0.2 ) $ (0.6 ) foreign currency management: forwards 235.3 159.6 81.2 476.1 $ 19.7 $ (1.7 ) cross currency swaps 240.7 240.7 $ (71.7 ) $ (220.4 ) commodity pricing management: swaps (notional in kwh) 483.8 309.5 55.5 848.8 $ (0.2 ) $ (0.9 ) swaps (notional in mt, rounds to zero) $ (4.7 ) $ (1.6 ) equity management: equity conversion feature of debt $ $ (7.9 ) (1) fair values are stated in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2013, and december 29, 2012, respectively. in january 2014, we early settled the final remaining cad 241 million notional amount of our outstanding currency swaps designated as a net investment hedge of our canadian operations for $65.2 million . see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 17, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. 64 table of contents we have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices. the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. as of december 31, 2013 december 29, 2012 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (69.2 ) $ (82.0 ) swaps $ (16.7 ) $ (57.8 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (146.6 ) $ (234.2 ) equity conversion feature of debt $ $ (5.6 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (110.0 ) $ (114.5 ) swaps $ (1.8 ) $ (25.4 ) commodity price risk: swaps $ (7.4 ) $ (1.4 ) equity price risk: equity conversion feature of debt $ $ (13.5 ) 65 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to our company the global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the consolidation of brewers has occurred globally resulting in fewer major global market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced, regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, u.s. and canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, recent evolution in these markets and emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, in canada changes to the existing historical framework of regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. as further described below, in addition to these risks related to growing competition and market evolution, the existing ontario distribution models may be changed in ways that are unfavorable to us and the industry standard returnable bottle agreement may change in ways that adversely impact our operating model across canada. if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, the above risk could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, distributor consolidation could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing 15 table of contents our ability to manage our pricing effectively. these factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and molson canadian brands in canada, coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., and carling, jelen, ozujsko and staropramen brands in europe represented half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2014 . additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically canada and the u.s., there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, during the second quarter of 2014, the balkans region experienced significant flooding which further exacerbated the existing economic pressures in the area, resulting in an increased consumer trend toward value brands within the impacted markets. this trend, along with other contributing factors, led to a decrease in sales volumes in the region, as well as impairments of our jelen brand in serbia and ozujsko brand in croatia, which were recorded in the third quarter of 2014. a continuation of this trend or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the results of our initial 2014 indefinite-lived intangible asset testing performed as of july 1, 2014, indicated that the fair value of our jelen and ozujsko indefinite-lived brand intangible assets within our europe segment were below their respective carrying values. as a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $360.0 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2014. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2014 , the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of our europe and canada reporting units were at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. the fair value of the europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 14% and 11% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. additionally, the fair value of the jelen , ozujsko and niksicko indefinite-lived brands in europe, and the molson core brands in canada, were also at risk of failing the quantitative analysis of the indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of october 1, 2014 . the europe and canada reporting units, and the jelen , ozujsko and niksicko brands in europe and molson core brands in canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including significant delays in projected macroeconomic recovery or prolonged adverse economic conditions), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. any future impairment of the europe or canada reporting units or jelen , ozujsko , niksicko , molson or other brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the 16 table of contents aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 12, "goodwill and intangible assets" of the notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, during 2014 we entered into an agreement with miller brewing company ( miller ) to terminate the license agreement between miller and mcc, which, when consummated in 2015, will have an adverse effect on our canadian volumes. additionally, subsequent to abi's acquisition of grupo modelo in 2013, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our mmi joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which resulted in an adverse impact on our 2014 canadian volumes upon final termination in the first quarter of 2014. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our millercoors joint venture in the united states and puerto rico with sabmiller. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, we terminated our mmi joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which, since termination in the first quarter of 2014, has had an adverse effect on our canadian volumes and financial results. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. 17 table of contents changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, is increasingly subject to legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse effect on millercoors and, consequently, on us. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western provinces. recent review of government assets in ontario has included an evaluation of the bri distribution model, the results of which we are actively negotiating with the ontario government. we cannot predict what, if any, changes may result from this review and what the impact may be on us; however, changes to the bri distribution model could have a material adverse effect on bri. see additional risks specific to bri under the "risks specific to the canada segment" heading below. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. examples of this are the recent changes in the canadian tax legislation and a regulatory assessment received in europe in the fourth quarter of 2014 related to the interpretation of the application of tax on the production and sale of our products. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to adding new tax laws, the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, but not limited to, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the recent strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies, if continued, would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel 18 table of contents fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. in addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our european supply chain network and following receipt of notification of the termination of our distribution agreement with heineken in the u.k., management made a proposal to close our brewing facility in alton, hampshire, u.k. in 2015, in connection with which we incurred costs in the fourth quarter of 2014 and for which we may incur additional costs during the first half of 2015. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these 19 table of contents funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we agreed to make a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in 2015, which we paid in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 65%, 36% and 39% of our canadian, millercoors and european workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. a labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, the success of our company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. further, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of a breach to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and 20 table of contents we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation and credibility. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 9, "stockholders' equity" of the notes for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. risks specific to the canada segment government mandated changes to the retail distribution model resulting from new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our canada business. beer sales are highly regulated by the canadian government. for example, in ontario, off-premise beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by bri, government-regulated retail outlets operated by the liquor control board of ontario ("lcbo"), or approved agents of the lcbo. in april 2014, the ontario premier's advisory council on government assets (the "council") began a review that included evaluating the bri distribution model. the results of this review and related proposals are currently under active discussions with the council, and the ultimate consequences related to this negotiation are unknown at this time. for example, the government could introduce a material operating fee, in the form of a mandated specific tax or other assessment, to allow bri the right to continue to distribute in ontario. it could also introduce incremental packaging options at the lcbo and agents of the lcbo, or otherwise mandate changes to the current retail distribution model, which could result in decreased off-premise sales volumes through bri and negatively impact our position in the market. additionally, as a result of the above review, certain other legal matters could arise that could have a negative impact on our business, such as the litigation related to our ownership of bri discussed in part i item 3. legal proceedings. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes and the implementation of equalization and standardization of excise tax regulations in quebec, could decrease our net sales. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 40% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry 21 table of contents standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. risks specific to the united states segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. while we direct the millercoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with sabmiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, millercoors' management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. as a result, we do not have full control over millercoors' activities. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. for example, the loss of the services and expertise of any key millercoors employee could harm our business. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. certain rights of first refusal apply to any assignment of the joint venture interests. any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and many of our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the europe segment economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a continued weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. as a result of our annual impairment testing, we determined that the fair value of our jelen and ozujsko indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values as of july 1, 2014. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2014. the decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to the continued weakening of the macroeconomic environment in certain european markets, which was further exacerbated by significant flooding that occurred in the balkans region during the second quarter of 2014. this also drove an acceleration of the trend toward value brands in certain markets where our primary brands are considered premium or above-premium. our impairment testing also indicated risk of additional future impairments of jelen, ozujsko and niksicko indefinite-lived intangible brands sold in these markets. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability. in the event that a significant pub chain declared bankruptcy, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to decrease since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets, on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets and in many cases our ability to find appropriate local partners. due to product price, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates, euribor and libor. to mitigate this exposure and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. the primary foreign currency exposures for which we hedge our risk are the cad and the eur. we manage this exposure through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. 63 table of contents commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter swaps. details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2014 , and december 31, 2013 , respectively. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 17, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 year end 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015 $ 774.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ 774.5 $ (802.4 ) $ (903.7 ) cad 500 million, 3.95% fixed rate series a notes, due 2017 $ $ $ 430.3 $ $ $ $ 430.3 $ (453.9 ) $ (494.3 ) $300 million 2.0% notes due 2017 $ $ $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ (304.3 ) $ (304.3 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 500.0 $ (505.5 ) $ (496.3 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,174.5 ) $ (1,098.5 ) foreign currency management: forwards $ 177.0 $ 120.7 $ 45.7 $ $ $ $ 343.4 $ 31.6 $ 19.7 interest rate management: swaps $ 344.2 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 844.2 $ (2.2 ) $ commodity pricing management: swaps $ 42.8 $ 41.4 $ 25.9 $ 1.0 $ $ $ 111.1 $ (8.9 ) $ (4.9 ) sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. 64 table of contents the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolios, with the exception of interest rate risk to our interest rate swaps in which we have applied an absolute 1% adverse change to the respective instrument's interest rate. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. as of december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (35.8 ) $ (69.2 ) commodity swaps $ (2.7 ) $ (16.7 ) interest rate swaps $ (3.0 ) $ foreign currency denominated debt $ (125.6 ) $ (146.6 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (111.9 ) $ (110.0 ) interest rate swaps $ (2.4 ) $ (1.8 ) commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (20.4 ) $ (7.4 ) 65 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to the pending acquisition we cannot predict when or if the pending acquisition will close. the acquisition of the 58% equity interest and 50% voting interest of millercoors that we do not already own and the miller brand portfolio outside of the u.s. and puerto rico is contingent upon a number of conditions beyond our control, including the closing of the abi-sabmiller transaction. the closing of the abi-sabmiller transaction is subject to conditions beyond our control, including, among other things, receipt of international and u.s. regulatory approvals. the acquisition will also require us to obtain regulatory approvals in the u.s. and 15 table of contents certain other jurisdictions. we are, therefore, unable to accurately predict when or if the pending acquisition will close. if we are unable to close the acquisition for any reason, we will not realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. we may not be able to realize anticipated cost synergies from the pending acquisition. the success of the pending acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies. our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost synergies of the pending acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. the pending acquisition will subject us to significant additional liabilities and other risks. following the pending acquisition, we will be subject to substantially all the liabilities of millercoors, including, among others, significant pension liabilities. we will also be subject to the risks of the u.s. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business will be in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the u.s., canada and the u.k. the pending acquisition and subsequent integration process will be complex, costly, time-consuming and divert management's time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the pending acquisition or, in order to do so, we may be required to satisfy material conditions or comply with material restrictions. in addition to the international and u.s. regulatory approvals needed to close the abi-sabmiller transaction, the consummation of the pending acquisition is also subject to review and approval by regulatory authorities, including by the united states department of justice. we can provide no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained in order to consummate the pending acquisition. we have agreed to take all actions necessary, and assist and cooperate in doing all things necessary, to avoid or eliminate any legal impediments to the pending acquisition, including divesting of up to $4 billion in assets. there can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the actions that may be required to obtain regulatory approvals. any such divestitures or other actions could have a material adverse effect on the business of both us and millercoors and substantially diminish the synergies and other advantages which we expect from the pending acquisition. in addition, we may not be able to affect any divestitures at an acceptable price or at all. the pending acquisition will impact our financial position. we will need to raise significant capital to fund the pending acquisition and such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms. we expect to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in connection with the pending acquisition in addition to our class b common stock offering completed in february 2016. if we are unable to raise significant additional capital on acceptable terms we may need to rely on our bridge loan agreement, which may result in substantially higher borrowing costs and a shorter maturity than those from other anticipated financing alternatives. in addition, ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels as the results of additional indebtedness related to the pending acquisition. a ratings downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing and harm our ability to finance the pending acquisition on acceptable terms or refinance our debt in the future. as a result of the need to raise significant financing to fund the pending acquisition, we currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized ebitda and our share repurchase program. we also intend to use cash from operations to fund the acquisition and service and reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. the incurrence of future indebtedness to fund the pending acquisition may subject us to additional financial and operating restrictions. future indebtedness may subject us to additional financial and operating covenants, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. our overall leverage and terms of our financing could, among other things: limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness; limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; 16 table of contents limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; and limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. we face numerous risks associated with the pending acquisition and integration of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico. the pending acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside of the u.s. and puerto rico may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities due to our limited due diligence of the business, including among other things, the absence of historical financial statements for this part of the business. the success of our acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside of the u.s. and puerto rico will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating its business with our existing businesses and operations. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming as the miller brand portfolio assets are in over 50 foreign countries. the difficulties of integrating the operations include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies; impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements; failure to retain key customers and suppliers; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; failure to recruit and retain key employees to operate the combined business; inherent operating risks in the business; unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the international miller brand portfolio operates; reliance on a competitor, abi, to provide transition services for this business; failure to develop sustainable routes to market upon the expiration of abi's transition services; difficulty in fully separating the miller brand portfolio from sabmiller's current brand portfolio; and inability to perform satisfactory due diligence on the business prior to closing of the acquisition. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the company and the international miller brand portfolio had achieved or might achieve separately. although we have a downward purchase price adjustment if the unaudited u.s. gaap ebitda for the international miller brand portfolio for the four quarters prior to closing is below $70 million, such adjustment may not be adequate to protect us from the future harm of acquiring an underperforming or declining brand portfolio. in addition, we may not accomplish the integration of the international miller brand portfolio smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. moreover, the markets in which the international miller brand portfolio operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the international miller brand portfolio. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. if we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the international miller brand portfolio or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to consummate the pending acquisition, our stock price may be adversely affected and our financial condition may materially suffer. if the pending acquisition is not completed for any reason, the trading price of our class a 17 table of contents common stock or class b common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our class a common stock or class b common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the pending acquisition will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. in addition, if the acquisition is not completed our financial condition could materially suffer, including: subject to certain reimbursement rights under the purchase agreement, the incurrence of significant costs related to the acquisition without the associated benefits of completing the acquisition, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, bridge and term loan financing and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue up to the closing of the acquisition. the amount of such operating expenses, fees and capital expenditures we incur in connection with the acquisition will be based on a variety of factors but may be material; increased dividend costs as a result additional capital stock issued without the associated benefits of completing the pending acquisition; if we complete a financing of debt securities prior to closing the pending acquisition, the incurrence of significant interest expense and potential redemption premiums with respect to such debt securities without the associated benefits of completing the pending acquisition; and potential disruption to our business and distraction of our workforce and management team. we will incur substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with the pending acquisition. we expect to incur a significant amount of non-recurring expenses in connection with the pending acquisition, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other expenses. subject to certain reimbursement rights under the purchase agreement, many of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the pending acquisition is completed. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred following consummation of the pending acquisition in the course of the integration of our businesses with that of millercoors and the international miller brand portfolio. we cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all. the pending acquisition will significantly increase our goodwill and other intangible assets. we have a significant amount, and following the pending acquisition will have an additional amount, of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. the impairment of any goodwill and other intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. risks specific to our company the global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the consolidation of brewers has occurred globally resulting in fewer major global market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced, regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, u.s. and canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, recent evolution in these markets and emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, in canada changes to the existing historical framework of regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. as further described below, in addition to these risks related to growing competition and market evolution, the existing ontario distribution models may be changed in ways that are unfavorable to us and the industry standard returnable bottle agreement may change in ways that adversely impact our operating model across canada. if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, the above risk could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 18 table of contents competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, distributor consolidation could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively. these factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and molson canadian brands in canada, coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., and carling, staropramen, jelen, ozujsko and coors light brands in europe represented half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2015 . additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically canada and the u.s., there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, we have continued to experience economic pressures in certain european markets through 2015, resulting in an increased consumer trend toward value brands within the impacted markets. this trend, along with other contributing factors, negatively impacted sales, as well as impairments of certain european brands, including jelen, which were recorded in the third quarter of 2015. a continuation of this trend or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the results of our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain european indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values. as a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $275.0 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2015. additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. these brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. 19 table of contents our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2015 , the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that while our canada reporting unit improved from the prior year, our europe reporting unit declined and was determined to be at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. specifically, the fair value of the europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 9% and 20% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. additionally, the fair value of the molson core brands in canada, were also at risk of failing the quantitative analysis of the indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of october 1, 2015 . the europe reporting unit, and molson core brands in canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged, or further weakening of, adverse economic conditions or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations thereof), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. although the fair value in excess the of carrying value has increased for the canada reporting unit from the october 1, 2014 testing date, the fair value is sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. any future impairment of the europe or canada reporting units or molson or other brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 11, "goodwill and intangible assets" of the notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, our 2015 europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with heineken under which we produced and packaged the foster's and kronenbourg brands in the u.k. additionally, canada volumes were also adversely impacted by the termination of our license agreement with miller brewing company ( miller ) in 2015. further, subsequent to abi's acquisition of grupo modelo in 2013, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our mmi joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which resulted in an adverse impact on our 2015 and 2014 canadian volumes upon final termination in the first quarter of 2014. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our millercoors joint venture in the united states and puerto rico with sabmiller. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, we terminated our mmi joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which, since termination in the first quarter of 2014, has had an adverse effect on our canadian volumes and financial results. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 20 table of contents our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally including in connection with our proposed acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, is increasingly subject to legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse effect on millercoors and, consequently, on us. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western provinces. recent review of government assets in ontario has included an evaluation of the bri distribution model which was finalized in second half of 2015. we continue to evaluate and are beginning to implement actions to mitigate any adverse impacts to our canada segment that may result from these changes. see additional risks specific to bri under the "risks specific to the canada segment" heading below. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. examples of this are the recent changes in the canadian tax legislation and regulatory assessments received in europe in the first quarter of 2015 and fourth quarter of 2014 related to the interpretation of the application of tax on the production and sale of our products. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to adding new tax laws, the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2015, in bihar, india, the largest state in india in which mci operates, it was announced that regulatory changes could impact the sale and distribution of alcohol, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 21 table of contents our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, but not limited to, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. additionally, the recent strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies, if continued, would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. the above risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. in addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 in which we incurred costs during the year and for which we may incur additional costs during 2016. there may be further brewery closures as part of our ongoing assessment to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. 22 table of contents failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the pending acquisition. see above "risks specific to the pending acquisition" for further details. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 59%, 31% and 36% of our canadian, millercoors and european workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. a labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in 23 table of contents addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, the success of our company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. further, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of a breach to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation and credibility. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 8, "stockholders' equity" of the notes for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. risks specific to the canada segment government mandated changes to the retail distribution model resulting from new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our canada business. beer sales are highly regulated by the canadian government. for example, in ontario, off-premise beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by bri, government-regulated retail outlets operated by the liquor control board of ontario ("lcbo"), or approved agents of the lcbo. in april 2014, the ontario premier's 24 table of contents advisory council on government assets (the "council") began a review that included evaluating the beer retailing and distribution system in ontario, for which bri is the primary beer retail and distribution channel. in april 2015, as a result of this review and our negotiations with the council, we, along with the other owners of bri, agreed, in principle and subject to entry into definitive binding documents, to enter into a new beer framework agreement (the "new framework") with the province of ontario. the associated master framework agreement was subsequently executed by all parties on september 22, 2015, and became effective as of january 1, 2016. additionally, as a result of the above review, certain other legal matters could arise that could have a negative impact on our business, such as the litigation related to our ownership of bri discussed in part i item 3. legal proceedings. if the implementation of the provisions under the new framework differ from our current expectations, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes and the implementation of equalization and standardization of excise tax regulations in quebec, could decrease our net sales. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 37% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. risks specific to the united states segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. pending our proposed acquisition of 100% of millercoors, we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. while we direct the millercoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with sabmiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, millercoors' management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. as a result, we do not have full control over millercoors' activities. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors' management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. for example, the loss of the services and expertise of any key millercoors employee could harm our business. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. certain rights of first refusal apply to any assignment of the joint venture interests. any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships. see risk factors related to the pending acquisition of millercoors above. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and many of our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the europe segment economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a continued weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain european indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values and we therefore recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $275.0 million . additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. these brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. the decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to key changes to our 25 table of contents underlying assumptions supporting the value of the brands. specific changes include underperformance through the 2015 peak season driving a downward shift in management's forecasts, along with challenging macroeconomic and competitive conditions that we no longer expect to subside in the near term. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability. in the event that a significant pub chain declared bankruptcy, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. business at on-premise outlets has decreased since late 2008 as a result of a continued challenging economic environment in the u.k. while the economic environment in the u.k. has seen an upturn in 2015, some pub chains may continue to face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not stabilize. in the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets, on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets and in many cases our ability to find appropriate local partners. due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates and libor. to mitigate this exposure as it pertains to future debt offerings and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. we manage our foreign currency exposures through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter swaps. details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2015 , and december 31, 2014 , respectively. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 16, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 year end 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value asset/(liability) fair value asset/(liability) (in millions) long-term debt: cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ (802.4 ) cad 500 million 3.95% series a notes due 2017 $ $ 361.3 $ $ $ $ $ 361.3 $ (376.0 ) $ (453.9 ) cad 400 million 2.25% notes due 2018 $ $ $ 289.0 $ $ $ $ 289.0 $ (290.9 ) $ cad 500 million 2.75% notes due 2020 $ $ $ $ $ 361.3 $ $ 361.3 $ (363.9 ) $ $300 million 2.0% notes due 2017 $ $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ (301.1 ) $ (304.3 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 500.0 $ (505.2 ) $ (505.5 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,046.3 ) $ (1,174.5 ) foreign currency management: forwards $ 152.2 $ 106.3 $ 41.8 $ $ $ $ 300.3 $ 44.1 $ 31.6 interest rate management: swaps $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ (2.2 ) commodity pricing management: swaps $ 50.2 $ 37.6 $ 19.7 $ 12.1 $ 0.7 $ $ 120.3 $ (21.4 ) $ (8.9 ) 69 table of contents sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the securities and exchange commission, are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolios, with the exception of interest rate risk to our interest rate swaps in which we have applied an absolute 1% adverse change to the respective instrument's interest rate. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. as of december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (29.7 ) $ (35.8 ) swaps $ $ (5.7 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (103.1 ) $ (125.6 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (99.6 ) $ (111.9 ) interest rate swaps $ $ (2.4 ) commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (9.4 ) $ (20.4 ) 70 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors investing in our company involves risk. the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us, however are not a comprehensive description of the risks facing our company. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial but may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. if the following risks or uncertainties, individually or in combination, actually occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. 16 table of contents risks specific to the acquisition we may not be able to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies from the acquisition. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost and operational synergies of the acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. the acquisition subjects us to significant additional liabilities, costs and other risks. we have assumed all of the liabilities of millercoors, including, among others, significant pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities. the assumed liabilities put additional pressure on our ability to successfully meet our deleveraging commitments and grow our business over time as discussed further below. in addition, as a result of the acquisition, we are subject to the risks of the u.s. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business is in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the u.s., canada and the u.k. economic conditions and consumer preferences in these markets will have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we may also incur additional costs in the course of the integration of the millercoors business and the international miller brand portfolio, and we cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all. integrations of acquired businesses are complex, costly, and time-consuming, and such activities divert management's time and attention. the assumption of liabilities in the acquisition, coupled with any delays, additional costs, or issues experienced during the integration period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the acquisition has impacted our financial position and could adversely impact our credit ratings. we raised significant capital to fund the acquisition, including the issuance of our 2016 notes, as defined in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the borrowings on our term loan completed in october 2016, in addition to our class b common stock offering completed in february 2016. ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels if we are unable to meet our deleveraging commitments. a ratings downgrade could increase our costs of future borrowing and harm our ability to refinance our debt in the future on acceptable terms or access the capital markets. we currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized ebitda and our share repurchase program. we also intend to use cash from operations to reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. see risks specific to our company below for additional risks relating to our debt. we face numerous risks associated with the acquisition and integration of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico. the acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside of the u.s. and puerto rico may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities. these risks arise because we acquired the miller brand portfolio from abi at a time when it had no access to historical financial statements which were then in the possession of sabmiller. accordingly, our due diligence was limited. we protected ourselves via a downward price adjustment described in more detail below. the success of our acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside of the u.s. and puerto rico will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating this business with our existing businesses and operations. the integration process will be complex, costly and time-consuming as the operations from the miller brand portfolio assets are in over 50 foreign countries. the difficulties of integrating the operations include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies; impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements; failure to retain key customers and suppliers; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; 17 table of contents failure to recruit and retain key employees to operate the combined business; inherent operating risks in the business; unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; increased foreign currency exposures which could adversely affect the amounts recorded for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations; unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the international miller brand portfolio operates; reliance on competitors, abi (or asahi, in the case of europe), to provide transition services for this business; failure to develop sustainable routes to market upon the expiration of transition services; difficulty in fully separating the miller brand portfolio from sabmiller's current brand portfolio; and inability to perform satisfactory due diligence on the business prior to closing of the acquisition. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the company and the international miller brand portfolio had achieved or might achieve separately. although we have a downward purchase price adjustment if the unaudited u.s. gaap earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) for the international miller brand portfolio for the twelve months prior to closing is below $70 million, such adjustment may not be adequate to protect us from the future harm of acquiring an underperforming or declining brand portfolio. in addition, we may not accomplish the integration of the international miller brand portfolio smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. moreover, the markets in which the international miller brand portfolio operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the international miller brand portfolio. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. if we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the international miller brand portfolio or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. risks specific to our company the global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the consolidation of brewers has occurred globally resulting in fewer major global market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced and/or regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, u.s. and canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, recent evolution in these markets and emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, in the u.s., we have experienced vast expansion in the craft beer industry and have accordingly strategically acquired several craft breweries in the recent year. if our competitors are able to respond more quickly to the evolving trends within the craft beer industry, or if our new products are not successful, our u.s. business may be adversely impacted. in canada, changes to regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing and/or changing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to 18 table of contents enhance competition and choice. as further described below, in addition to these risks related to growing competition and market evolution, the existing ontario distribution models may be changed in ways that are unfavorable to us and the industry standard returnable bottle agreement may change in ways that adversely impact our operating model across canada. if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, the above risk could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and pressures from marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, distributor consolidation could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reduce our ability to manage our pricing effectively. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability and these factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. moreover, most of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. for example, sales in the u.s. were approximately $7.7 billion in 2016 and sales in canada accounted for approximately 27.5% of our total 2016 sales. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., coors light, molson canadian brands, coors banquet and carling in canada, and carling, staropramen, jelen, ozujsko and coors light brands in europe represented approximately half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2016. additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. recently, there has been more attention focused on the health concerns and harmful effects of alcoholic beverages which could result in a change in the social acceptability of beer and other alcoholic beverages which could materially impact our sales. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically canada and the u.s., there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. while we have quality control programs in place, in the event we experienced an issue with product quality, we may experience recalls or liability in addition to business disruption which could further negatively impact brand image and reputation. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. 19 table of contents difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, we have continued to experience economic pressures in certain european markets, resulting in an increased consumer trend toward value brands within the impacted markets. a continuation of this trend or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a significant portion of our consolidated net sales revenues will be concentrated in the u.s. therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, in the u.s. could negatively affect consumer demand for our product in this important market. under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our products to lower-priced products offered by other companies. softer consumer demand for our products in the u.s. could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. our debt level, which increased significantly in 2016 to fund the acquisition, subjects us to financial and operating risks, and the agreements governing such debt subject us to financial and operating covenants and restrictions. our indebtedness subjects us to financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on priority indebtedness, leverage thresholds, liens, certain types of secured debt and certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default would adversely affect our credit ratings, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness, and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. our significant debt level and the terms of such debt could, among other things: make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness; limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic opportunities, including acquisitions or other investments, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and adversely impact our competitive position in the industry. failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. default by or failure of one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses. as part of our risk management activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including, among others, forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, option contracts, with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the united states and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy 20 table of contents proceedings. in the event of default by or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. as a result the u.k. vote to leave the european union, the gbp experienced a significant decline in comparison to usd and eur and continues to be volatile. any significant further weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. additionally, the recent strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies, if continued, would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, governmental regulations, including tariffs, frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the availability or prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. for example, as a result of the acquisition, we have preliminarily allocated approximately $6.4 billion and $7.7 billion to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the results of our annual impairment testing completed as of october 1, 2016 , indicated that the fair value of the molson core brand indefinite-lived intangible asset was below its carrying value. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $495.2 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2016. additionally, during this review, we also reassessed the asset's indefinite-life classification and determined that the molson core brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. these brands were therefore reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets and will be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2016 , the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of our canada reporting unit declined from the prior year, while our europe reporting unit fair value remained comparable with the prior year, and therefore continues to be considered at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. specifically, the fair value of the europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 14% and 29% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. the europe reporting unit is therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged, or further weakening of, adverse economic conditions or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations 21 table of contents thereof), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. although the fair value in excess of the carrying value has increased for the canada reporting unit from the october 1, 2015, testing date, the fair value is sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. any future impairment of the europe or canada reporting units or brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the resulting integration of the millercoors and miller global business is unsuccessful due to, for example, unexpected challenges or difficulties, or adverse economic, market or industry conditions, material impairment charges may be incurred in the future. the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii-item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 11, "goodwill and intangible assets" of the notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, our 2015 europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with heineken under which we produced and packaged the foster's and kronenbourg brands in the u.k. additionally, canada volumes were also adversely impacted by the termination of our license agreement with miller brewing company ( miller ) in 2015. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems in canada organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the financial condition of these suppliers deteriorates our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. our suppliers' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including competitive and general market conditions in the locations in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. a deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major suppliers could adversely affect our business. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our joint ventures with ball corporation, rocky mountain metal container, and with owens-brockway glass container inc., rocky mountain bottle company, for a portion of our aluminum and glass packaging supply in the united states. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, we terminated our mmi joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories, which, since termination in the first quarter of 2014, has had an adverse effect on our canadian volumes and financial results. the above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 22 table of contents our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally including in connection with our recent acquisition of the miller brand portfolio outside the u.s. and puerto rico. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, each of which could have a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. many countries in which we operate regulate the distribution of alcohol products and if those regulations were changed, it could alter our business practices and have material adverse effects on our business and financial results. for example, in the u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that governs the sale of malt beverage products. that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, dates back to the repeal of prohibition and is periodically subject to legal challenges. to the extent that such challenges are successful and allow changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. segment results of operations. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western provinces. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in tax, environmental, trade or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as tariffs, licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. an example of this is the regulatory assessments received in europe in the first quarters of 2016 and 2015 and fourth quarter of 2014 related to the interpretation of the application of tax on the production and sale of our products for which we recorded a charge of approximately $50 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. if these assessments are upheld in full or in part, in addition to potentially recording an additional charge, we would be subject to increased taxes on future sales of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating income. in addition, u.s. legislative initiatives to reform u.s. tax law could have a material impact on our tax rate and our cash tax expectations, including our expected cash tax benefits related to the acquisition. modifications of u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment (including trade agreements and tariffs) could adversely affect our supply chain, business and results of operations. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to adding new tax laws, the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of 23 table of contents alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in early 2016, the government of bihar, india, the largest state in india in which mci operates, announced a complete prohibition on the sale and distribution of alcohol, which if not reversed, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. the above risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. in addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 and 2016 and we incurred related costs and for which we may incur additional costs during 2017. we regularly review our supply chain network to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. such review could potentially result in further closures and the related costs could be material. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the acquisition. see above "risks specific to the acquisition" for further details. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these 24 table of contents funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 50%, 28% and 36% of our canadian, u.s. and european workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in certain of our key markets expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. a prolonged labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, early in the first quarter of 2017, our toronto brewery unionized employees commenced a labor strike initiated from on-going negotiations of the collective bargaining agreement. this labor strike has resulted in slower than expected production at the toronto brewery early in the first quarter of 2017. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely extensively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. further, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of a breach to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, or damage our reputation and credibility. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight or consumers may avoid our brands due to negative publicity. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement 25 table of contents the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 8, "stockholders' equity" of the notes for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. risks specific to the united states segment our u.s. business is highly dependent on independent distributors to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell nearly all of our products, including all of our imported products, in the united states to independent distributors for resale to retail outlets. these independent distributors are entitled to exclusive territories and protected from termination by state statutes and regulations. consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. competition in the u.s. market could have a material adverse impact on our u.s. business. craft breweries continue to expand in capacity, geographic and in their brand options while distributors and retailers are making more shelf space available for these expanding craft beer brands. with the continued growth of the craft industry in the u.s. market, we may not remain competitive and relevant with our product offerings and related innovations. an inability to remain competitive, could adversely impact our results of operations and market share. additionally, due to competition with brewers and other alternative beverage companies in the u.s., an increase in the purchasing power of our large competitors, may cause further pricing pressures which could prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs necessary to compete. such pressures, could have a material adverse impact our on our business and our financial results and market share. changes in the social acceptability of alcohol and the political view of the alcohol industry may harm the u.s. business. the alcoholic beverage industry is regularly the subject of anti-alcohol activist activity related to the health concerns from the misuse of alcohol and concerns regarding underage drinking and exposure to alcohol advertisements. negative publicity regarding beer and changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer and other alcoholic beverages, could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products which could adversely affect our business and financial conditions. additionally, the concerns around alcohol, could result in advertising, selling and other restrictions imposed by regulators. moreover, it could result in increased taxes associated with alcohol sales, which could also negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition if consumers and customers change their purchasing patterns. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the potential for an increase in beer excise taxes, could decrease our net sales. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 34% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. 26 table of contents risks specific to the europe segment the vote in the u.k. to leave the european union could adversely affect us. approximately 22% of our consolidated net sales in 2016 came from the u.k., which is our largest market in europe. in a referendum held on june 23, 2016, a majority of voters in the u.k. voted in favor of the u.k. leaving the european union. the u.k. vote to leave the european union triggered a decline in the gbp in comparison to usd and eur. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm the beer business, and if such conditions emerge in the u.k. or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our europe segment. in addition, any significant further weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. negotiations on exit terms may take two years to complete once the u.k. formally initiates its exit from the european union and negotiations on new trade agreements may take longer. the u.k. will remain a member of the european union until then and will be bound by its legal and treaty obligations. because of the uncertain terms of the exit, market volatility may continue. economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a continued weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise) as well as from premium or core brands to value brands, for the industry in general. margins on sales of value brands and sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets, on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets and in many cases our ability to find appropriate local partners. due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. due to the completion of the acquisition on october 11, 2016, millercoors' exposures are included as of december 31, 2016 . as we previously accounted for our 42% interest in millercoors as an equity method investment, the related exposures are not included as of december 31, 2015. further, in order to finance the acquisition, we entered into multiple financing agreements during 2016 subject to market risk which are also included as of december 31, 2016 . interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates and libor. to mitigate this exposure as it pertains to future debt offerings and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. 74 table of contents foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. we manage our foreign currency exposures through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter financial instruments. details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2016 , and december 31, 2015 , respectively. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 12, "debt" and note 16, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 year end 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value asset/(liability) fair value asset/(liability) (in millions) long-term debt: cad 500 million 3.95% series a notes due 2017 $ 372.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 372.0 $ (382.7 ) $ (376.0 ) cad 400 million 2.25% notes due 2018 $ $ 297.6 $ $ $ $ $ 297.6 $ (302.3 ) $ (290.9 ) cad 500 million 2.75% notes due 2020 $ $ $ $ 372.0 $ $ $ 372.0 $ (381.0 ) $ (363.9 ) cad 500 million 2.84% notes due 2023 $ $ $ $ $ $ 372.0 $ 372.0 $ (372.3 ) $ cad 500 million 3.44% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 372.0 $ 372.0 $ (370.0 ) $ $300 million 2.0% notes due 2017 $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ (301.7 ) $ (301.1 ) $500 million 1.45% notes due 2019 $ $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (496.1 ) $ $1.0 billion 2.10% notes due 2021 $ $ $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ $ 1,000.0 $ (984.0 ) $ $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 500.0 $ (511.8 ) $ (505.2 ) $2.0 billion 3.0% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,000.0 $ 2,000.0 $ (1,913.4 ) $ $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,147.4 ) $ (1,046.3 ) $1.8 billion 4.2% notes due 2046 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,800.0 $ 1,800.0 $ (1,709.1 ) $ eur 800 million 1.25% notes due 2024 $ $ $ $ $ $ 841.4 $ 841.4 $ (846.6 ) $ term loan due 2019 $ $ $ 800.0 $ $ $ $ 800.0 $ (800.0 ) $ term loan due 2021 $ $ $ $ $ 1,500.0 $ $ 1,500.0 $ (1,500.0 ) $ foreign currency management: forwards $ 161.3 $ 109.2 $ 58.9 $ $ $ $ 329.4 $ 14.4 $ 44.1 commodity pricing management: swaps $ 327.3 $ 219.6 $ 166.5 $ 73.4 $ 4.6 $ $ 791.4 $ (18.1 ) $ (21.4 ) options $ 8.3 $ 5.3 $ $ $ $ $ 13.6 $ $ sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps and commodity options. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. 75 table of contents the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolio: as of december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (35.1 ) $ (29.7 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (223.6 ) $ (103.1 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (319.3 ) $ (99.6 ) commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (66.8 ) $ (9.4 ) commodity options $ $ the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ materially from the results presented in the table above. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors investing in our company involves risk. the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us, however, are not a comprehensive description of the risks facing our company. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial but may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. if the following risks or uncertainties, individually or in combination, actually occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to our company the global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the global consolidation of brewers has resulted in fewer major market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced and/or regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, u.s. and canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, evolution in these and others of our beer markets together with emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, in the u.s., canada and europe, we have experienced vast expansion in the craft beer industry along with the expansion of cider and flavored malt beverages and, accordingly, among other things, we have strategically acquired several craft breweries. if our competitors are able to respond more quickly to the evolving trends within the craft beer, cider and flavored malt beverages categories, or if our new products are not successful, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. in canada, changes to interprovincial trade rules, regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles, may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing and/or changing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. in addition, the supreme court of canada is currently considering the validity of certain interprovincial trade rules, which, among other things, may favor local or small brewers, and any changes could adversely impact our operating model across canada. if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. see risk factors below under risks specific to the canadian segment for additional risks specific to competition in the canadian beer market. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in many of our markets, our primary competitors have greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and may be more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and pressures from marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, consolidation of distributors in our industry could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reduce our ability to manage our pricing effectively. additionally, due to competition with brewers and other beverage companies, an increase in the purchasing power of our large competitors may cause further pricing pressures which could prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs necessary to compete. such pressures could have a material adverse impact our on our business and our financial results and market share. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures could result in lower margins or loss of market share and volumes. moreover, most of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. for example, sales in the u.s. and canada accounted for approximately 80% of our total 2017 sales. 21 table of contents our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., coors light, molson canadian , coors banquet and carling brands in canada, and carling, staropramen, jelen, bergenbier and coors light brands in europe represented approximately half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2017. additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. recently, there has been more attention focused on health concerns and the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages which could result in a change in the social acceptability of beer and other alcoholic beverages which could materially impact the consumption of beer and our sales. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically canada, the u.s. and europe, there has been a shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by smaller, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have a significant share in such markets, therefore, small movements in consumer preference, such as a consumer shift away from premium light brands, can disproportionately impact our results. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the emergence of legal cannabis in certain u.s. states and canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer or a decline in the consumption of our products could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing brands and products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our brands and products. while we have quality control programs in place, in the event we experienced an issue with product quality, we may experience recalls or liability in addition to business disruption which could further negatively impact brand image and reputation and negatively affect our sales. our brand image and reputation may also be more difficult to protect due to less oversight and control as a result of the outsourcing of some of our operations. we also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. weak, or weakening of, economic or other negative conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country-specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, a trend towards value brands in certain of our markets or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a significant portion of our consolidated net sales revenues are concentrated in the u.s. therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, in the u.s. could negatively affect consumer demand for our product in this important market. under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our products to lower-priced products offered by other companies. softer consumer demand for our products in the u.s. could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. we may not be able to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies from the acquisition. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, 22 table of contents this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost and operational synergies of the acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame, or at all. the acquisition subjects us to significant additional liabilities, costs and other risks. we have assumed all of the liabilities of millercoors, including, among others, significant pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities. the assumed liabilities put additional pressure on our ability to successfully meet our deleveraging commitments and grow our business over time as discussed further below. in addition, as a result of the acquisition, we are subject to the risks of the u.s. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business is in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the u.s., canada and the u.k. economic conditions and consumer preferences in these markets will have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we may also incur additional costs in the course of the integration of the miller international business, and we cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all. integrations of acquired businesses are complex, costly, and time-consuming, and such activities divert management's time and attention. the assumption of liabilities in the acquisition, coupled with any delays, additional costs, or issues experienced during the integration period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face numerous risks associated with the integration of the miller international business. the acquisition of the miller international business may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities. these risks arise because we acquired the miller international business from abi at a time when we had no access to historical financial statements or information which were then in the possession of sabmiller. accordingly, our due diligence was limited. under a settlement agreement entered into with abi in january 2018, we received an adjustment amount of $328 million related to the acquisition; however, this adjustment may not be sufficient to mitigate all our risks related to the limited due diligence and incomplete historical financial statements and information of the miller international business. the success of our acquisition of the miller international business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating this business with our existing businesses and operations. the potential difficulties of the continuing integration of operations include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements; failure to retain key customers, employees and suppliers; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; inherent operating risks in the business; unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; increased foreign currency exposures which could adversely affect the amounts recorded for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations; unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the miller international business operates; reliance on competitors, abi (or asahi, in the case of europe), to provide production services as we continue to transition the business; failure to develop sustainable production sources prior to the expiration of abi's (or asahi's, in the case of europe) production services. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the company and the miller international business had achieved or might achieve separately. the markets in which the miller international business operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the miller international business. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. if the miller international business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the miller international business may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer 23 table of contents to realize than expected. in such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. our debt level, which increased significantly to fund the acquisition, subjects us to financial and operating risks, and the agreements governing such debt subject us to financial and operating covenants and restrictions. our indebtedness subjects us to financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on priority indebtedness, leverage thresholds, liens, certain types of secured debt and certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default would adversely affect our credit ratings, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness, and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. our significant debt level and the terms of such debt could, among other things: make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness; limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic opportunities, including acquisitions or other investments, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and adversely impact our competitive position in the industry. failure to comply with our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could increase our borrowing rates or have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing or refinance current debt. ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels if we are unable to meet our deleveraging commitments. a credit ratings downgrade could increase our costs of future borrowing and harm our ability to refinance our debt in the future on acceptable terms or access the capital markets. we currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized ebitda and our share repurchase program. we also intend to use cash from operations to reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. default by or failure of one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses. as part of our risk management activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including, among others, forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, option contracts, with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. 24 table of contents our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, governmental regulations, including tariffs, frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the availability or prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. unfavorable outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in or subject to legal or regulatory proceedings related to our business. such proceedings can be complex, costly, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. the assessment of the outcome of such proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, regulatory or other proceedings, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon judgment or settlement, may differ materially from management's outlook or estimates, including any amounts accrued in the financial statements. actual outcomes, including judgments, awards, settlements or orders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. for example, as a result of the acquisition, we have allocated approximately $6.3 billion and $7.6 billion to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the results of our annual impairment testing completed as of october 1, 2016, indicated that the fair value of the molson core brand indefinite-lived intangible asset was below its carrying value. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $495.2 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2016. additionally, during this review, we also reassessed the asset's indefinite-life classification and determined that the molson core brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. these brands were therefore reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets and will be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2017, the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of the u.s., europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 28% , 18% and 26% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. although the fair values of our reporting units are sufficiently in excess of their carrying values, the fair values are sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. any future impairment of the u.s., europe or canada reporting units or brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the on-going integration of the millercoors and miller international business is unsuccessful due to, for example, unexpected challenges or difficulties, or adverse economic, market or industry conditions, material impairment charges may be incurred in the future. the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii-item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 11, "goodwill and intangible assets" of the notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements, such as our agreement to import, market, distribute and sell heineken in canada and our arrangements to brew and distribute beck's, stella artois, lowenbrau and 25 table of contents spaten and to distribute corona in central europe. our inability to renew or the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, our 2015 europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with heineken under which we produced and packaged the foster's and kronenbourg brands in the u.k. additionally, in 2017, our international segment was adversely impacted by the loss of the modelo brands in japan. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems in canada organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the financial condition of these suppliers deteriorates our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. our suppliers' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including: competitive and general market conditions in the locations in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. a deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major suppliers could adversely affect our business and financial results. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our joint ventures with ball corporation (i.e. rocky mountain metal container), and with owens-brockway glass container inc. (i.e. rocky mountain bottle company), for a portion of our aluminum and glass packaging supply in the u.s. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. for example, effective in 2014 we terminated our modelo molson imports, l.p. joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the modelo beer brand portfolio across all canadian provinces and territories which had an adverse effect on our canadian volumes and financial results. our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally, including in connection with our acquisition of the miller international business. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, each of which could have a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign 26 table of contents corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. many countries in which we operate regulate the distribution of alcohol products and if those regulations were changed, it could alter our business practices and have material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that governs the sale of malt beverage products. that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, dates back to the repeal of prohibition and is periodically subject to legal challenges. to the extent that such challenges are successful and allow changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. segment results of operations. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain canadian provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western canadian provinces. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in usd, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. as a result of the u.k. vote to leave the european union, the gbp experienced a significant decline in comparison to usd and eur and may continue to be volatile. any significant further weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. additionally, the strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. changes in tax, environmental, trade or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could cause volatility or have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as tariffs, licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, ingredient regulations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, on december 22, 2017, h.r. 1, also known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ), was enacted in the u.s. this enactment resulted in a number of significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law for u.s. corporations. most notably, the statutory federal corporate income tax rate was changed from 35% to 21% for corporations and, as a result, we recorded an estimated net tax benefit of approximately $434 million in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2017 driven by the effects of the 2017 tax act on our deferred tax positions as of december 31, 2017. our initial assessment of the impacts of the 2017 tax act is preliminary as we continue to evaluate the 2017 tax act and understand its implications, as well as the related, and yet to be issued, regulator rules, regulations and interpretations. if our complete and final assessment and understanding of the 2017 tax act differs significantly from this initial assessment, or the forthcoming rules, regulations and interpretations change our preliminary conclusions, the resulting impacts could have a material adverse impact on our tax rate and cash tax expectations. additionally, modifications of u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment (including trade agreements and tariffs, such as the north american free trade agreement or aluminum tariffs currently being evaluated by the u.s. government) could adversely affect our supply chain, business and results of operations. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex 27 table of contents domestic and international tax laws and regulations, the amount and timing of future taxable income and the interaction of such laws and regulations among jurisdictions. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in early 2016, the government of bihar, india, the largest state in india in which our international segment operates, announced a complete prohibition on the sale and distribution of alcohol. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. changing weather patterns and more volatile weather conditions could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may impact quality, limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain, distribution networks and routes to market, or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business could be interrupted and our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terror attacks and other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 and 2016 and we incurred related costs during 2017. we regularly review our supply chain network to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. such reviews could potentially result in further closures and the related costs could be material. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several strategic joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the acquisition. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, 28 table of contents global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these funding requirements also may require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating, cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. in addition, we made pension plan contributions during 2017 of approximately $310 million , including $200 million of discretionary contributions to the u.s. pension plan. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. as of december 31, 2017, approximately 55%, 40%, and 28% of our canadian, european and u.s. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in certain of our key markets expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in those markets. a prolonged labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the first quarter of 2017, our toronto brewery unionized employees commenced a labor strike initiated from on-going negotiations of the collective bargaining agreement. this labor strike resulted in slower than expected production at the toronto brewery in the first quarter of 2017. from time to time, our collective bargaining agreements come due for renegotiation. currently, we are in collective bargaining with our montreal brewery, distribution and sales unions and, if we are unable to timely complete negotiations, affected employees may strike, which could have an adverse effect on our canadian business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely extensively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. a breach of our information systems could cause material financial or reputational harm. our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of cyber-attacks or other breaches to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely prepare, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, or damage our reputation and credibility. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight or consumers may avoid our brands due to negative publicity. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 29 table of contents if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to our stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. if these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 8, "stockholders' equity" of the notes for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. risks specific to the united states segment our u.s. business is highly dependent on independent distributors to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell nearly all of our products, including all of our imported products, in the u.s. to independent distributors for resale to retail outlets. these independent distributors are entitled to exclusive territories and protected from termination by state statutes and regulations. consequently, if we are not allowed, or are unable under acceptable terms or at all, to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in the social acceptability of alcohol and the political view of the alcohol industry may harm the u.s. business. the alcoholic beverage industry is regularly the subject of anti-alcohol activist activity related to the health concerns from the misuse of alcohol and concerns regarding underage drinking and exposure to alcohol advertisements. negative publicity regarding beer and changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer and other alcoholic beverages, could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products which could, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial conditions. additionally, the concerns around alcohol could result in advertising, selling and other restrictions imposed by regulators. moreover, it could result in increased taxes associated with alcohol sales, which also could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition if consumers and customers change their purchasing patterns. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation or acceleration of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the potential for an increase in beer excise taxes, could decrease our net sales. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the legalization of cannabis in canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer or our other products. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. if we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 31% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable 30 table of contents bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. risks specific to the europe segment the vote in the u.k. to leave the european union could adversely affect us. approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 came from the u.k., which is our largest market in europe. in a referendum held on june 23, 2016, a majority of voters in the u.k. voted in favor of the u.k. leaving the european union. the u.k. vote to leave the european union triggered a decline in the gbp in comparison to usd and eur. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm the beer business, and if such conditions emerge in the u.k. or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our europe segment. in addition, any significant weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. the u.k. is expected to leave the eu on march 29, 2019. because the terms of the exit are still unknown, we may face regulatory uncertainty and may need to quickly adapt to regulatory changes and market volatility. economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and, in the future may be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to pricing, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise) as well as from premium or core brands to value brands, for the industry in general. margins on sales of value brands and sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability. risks specific to the international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to further grow our international segment in emerging markets depends on our ability: to react to social, economic, and political conditions in those markets; to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets; and, in many cases, to find appropriate local partners. due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do, and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates and libor. to mitigate this exposure as it pertains to future debt offerings and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. we manage our foreign currency exposures through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter financial instruments. 76 table of contents details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2017 . see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 12, "debt" and note 17, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2017 year end 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value asset/ (liability) (in millions) long-term debt: cad 400 million 2.25% notes due 2018 $ 318.2 $ $ $ $ $ $ 318.2 $ (320.8 ) cad 500 million 2.75% notes due 2020 $ $ $ 397.7 $ $ $ $ 397.7 $ (402.5 ) cad 500 million 2.84% notes due 2023 $ $ $ $ $ $ 397.7 $ 397.7 $ (396.8 ) cad 500 million 3.44% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 397.7 $ 397.7 $ (396.6 ) $500 million 1.45% notes due 2019 $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (496.9 ) $500 million 1.90% notes due 2019 $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (500.7 ) $500 million 2.25% notes due 2020 $ $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (502.3 ) $1.0 billion 2.10% notes due 2021 $ $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ (987.5 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ $ 500.0 $ (514.3 ) $2.0 billion 3.0% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,000.0 $ 2,000.0 $ (1,986.4 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,246.2 ) $1.8 billion 4.2% notes due 2046 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,800.0 $ 1,800.0 $ (1,874.4 ) eur 500 million notes due 2019 $ $ 600.3 $ $ $ $ $ 600.3 $ (601.9 ) eur 800 million 1.25% notes due 2024 $ $ $ $ $ $ 960.4 $ 960.4 $ (975.7 ) foreign currency management: forwards $ 160.8 $ 115.2 $ 50.4 $ $ $ $ 326.4 $ (10.9 ) commodity pricing management: swaps $ 411.2 $ 228.7 $ 116.8 $ 8.3 $ $ $ 765.0 $ 122.8 options $ 30.6 $ $ $ $ $ $ 30.6 $ sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps and commodity options. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolio: as of december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (36.5 ) $ (35.1 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (310.0 ) $ (223.6 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (311.9 ) $ (319.3 ) commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (43.5 ) $ (66.8 ) commodity options $ $ the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ materially from the results presented in the table above. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors investing in our company involves risk. the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this annual report on form 10-k. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us, however, are not a comprehensive description of the risks facing our company. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial but may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. if the following risks or uncertainties, individually or in combination, actually occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. risks specific to our company the global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the global consolidation of brewers has resulted in fewer major market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced and/or regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, u.s. and canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, evolution in these and others of our beer markets together with emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, in the u.s., canada and europe, we have experienced vast expansion in the craft beer industry along with the expansion of cider and flavored malt beverages. if our competitors are able to respond more quickly to the evolving trends within the craft beer, cider and flavored malt beverages categories, or if our new products are not successful, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. in canada, changes to interprovincial trade rules, regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles, may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing and/or changing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, there could be a 20 table of contents material adverse effect on our business and financial results. see risk factors below under risks specific to the canadian segment for additional risks specific to competition in the canadian beer market. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in many of our markets, our primary competitors have greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and may be more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital or other investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers and between brewers and other beverage companies may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and pressures from marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, consolidation of distributors in our industry could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reduce our ability to manage our pricing effectively. additionally, due to competition with brewers and other beverage companies, an increase in the purchasing power of our large competitors may cause further pricing pressures which could prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs necessary to compete. such pressures could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial results and market share. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures could result in lower margins or loss of market share and volumes. moreover, most of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. for example, sales in the u.s. and canada accounted for approximately 80% of our total 2018 sales. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., coors light, molson canadian , coors banquet and carling brands in canada, and carling, staropramen, jelen, bergenbier and coors light brands in europe represented approximately half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2018. additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. recently, there has been more attention focused on health concerns and the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages which could result in a change in the social acceptability of beer and other alcoholic beverages which could materially impact the consumption of beer and our sales. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically canada, the u.s. and europe, there has been a shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by smaller, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have a significant share in such markets, therefore, small movements in consumer preference, such as consumer shifts away from premium light brands, can disproportionately impact our results. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the emergence of legal cannabis in certain u.s. states and canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer or a decline in the consumption of our products could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing brands and products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our brands and products. while we have quality control programs in place, in the event we experienced an issue with product quality, we may experience recalls or liability in addition to business disruption which could further negatively impact brand image and reputation and negatively affect our sales. our brand image and reputation may also be more difficult to protect due to less oversight and control as a result of the outsourcing of some of our operations. we also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. further, our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect 21 table of contents our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. weak, or weakening of, economic or other negative conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country-specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, a trend towards value brands in certain of our markets or deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a significant portion of our consolidated net sales revenues are concentrated in the u.s. therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, in the u.s. could negatively affect consumer demand for our product in this important market. under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our products to lower-priced products offered by other companies. softer consumer demand for our products, particularly in the u.s., could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. we may not be able to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies from the acquisition. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost and operational synergies of the acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame, or at all. our debt level, which increased significantly to fund the acquisition, subjects us to financial and operating risks, and the agreements governing such debt subject us to financial and operating covenants and restrictions. our indebtedness subjects us to financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on priority indebtedness, leverage thresholds, liens, certain types of secured debt and certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default would adversely affect our credit ratings, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness, and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. our significant debt level and the terms of such debt could, among other things: make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness; limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic opportunities, including acquisitions or other investments, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and adversely impact our competitive position in the industry. in addition, certain of our current and future debt and derivative financial instruments have or, in the future, could have interest rates that are tied to reference interest rates, such as the libor. the volatility and availability of such reference rates are out of our control. accordingly, changes to or the unavailability of such rates, could result in increases to the cost of debt which would negatively affect our profitability. for example, in 2017, the uk's financial conduct authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer persuade or compel panel banks to submit the rates required to calculate libor, and it is unclear whether the banks currently reporting information used to set libor will stop doing so after 2021. should libor no 22 table of contents longer be available, the rates we pay under certain derivative financial instruments could increase, which would negatively affect our profitability, and the attractiveness of borrowings under our current credit facility or future debt issuances could diminish, thereby limiting our access to capital. failure to comply with our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. these include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. a deterioration in our credit rating could increase our borrowing rates or have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing or refinance current debt. ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels if we are unable to meet our deleveraging commitments. a credit ratings downgrade could increase our costs of future borrowing and harm our ability to refinance our debt in the future on acceptable terms or access the capital markets. default by or failure of one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses. as part of our risk management activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including, among others, forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, option contracts, with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, governmental regulations, including tariffs, frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, changes in precipitation patterns, the frequency of extreme weather events, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases, theft and industry surcharges and other practices. for example, in june 2018, u.s. tariffs on aluminum imports from canada, mexico and eu went into effect, which has created volatility in the price of aluminum in the u.s. and increased the price of aluminum used in some of our product packaging. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the availability or prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. unfavorable outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in or subject to legal or regulatory proceedings related to our business. such proceedings can be complex, costly, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. the assessment of the outcome of such proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, regulatory or other proceedings, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon judgment or settlement, may differ materially from management's outlook or estimates, including any amounts accrued in the financial statements. actual outcomes, including judgments, awards, settlements or orders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. for example, as a result of the acquisition, we allocated approximately $6.3 billion and $7.6 23 table of contents billion to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, the results of our annual impairment testing completed as of october 1, 2016, indicated that the fair value of the molson core brand indefinite-lived intangible asset was below its carrying value. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $495.2 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2016. additionally, during this review, we also reassessed the asset's indefinite-life classification and determined that the molson core brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. these brands were therefore reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets and are being amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2018 , the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of the u.s., europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 19% , 11% and 6% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. in the current year testing, it was determined that the fair value of each of the reporting units declined from the prior year, resulting in our europe and canada reporting units now being considered at risk of future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged weakening of economic conditions, or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations thereof), terminal growth rates, market multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analyses. although the fair values of our reporting units are in excess of their carrying values, the fair values are sensitive to the aforementioned potential unfavorable changes that could have an adverse impact on future analyses. any future impairment of the u.s., europe or canada reporting units or brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the on-going integration of the millercoors and miller international business is unsuccessful due to, for example, unexpected challenges or difficulties, or adverse economic, market or industry conditions, material impairment charges may be incurred in the future. the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii-item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 10, "goodwill and intangible assets" of the notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements, such as our agreement to import, market, distribute and sell heineken in canada and our arrangements to brew and distribute beck's, stella artois, lowenbrau and spaten and to distribute corona in central europe. our inability to renew or the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in 2017, our international segment was adversely impacted by the loss of the modelo brands in japan. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems in canada organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the financial condition of these suppliers deteriorates our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. our suppliers' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including: competitive and general market conditions in the locations in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. a deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major suppliers could adversely affect our business and financial results. 24 table of contents risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our joint ventures with ball corporation (i.e. rocky mountain metal container), and with owens-brockway glass container inc. (i.e. rocky mountain bottle company), for a portion of our aluminum and glass packaging supply in the u.s. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally, including in connection with our acquisition of the miller international business. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, each of which could have a materially negative effect on our reputation, brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. many countries in which we operate regulate the distribution of alcohol products and if those regulations were changed, it could alter our business practices and have material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that governs the sale of malt beverage products. that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, dates back to the repeal of prohibition and is periodically subject to legal challenges. to the extent that such challenges are successful and allow changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. segment results of operations. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain canadian provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western canadian provinces. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in usd, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not 25 table of contents effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. for example, as a result of the u.k. vote in 2016 to leave the european union, the gbp experienced a significant decline in comparison to usd and eur and may continue to be volatile. any significant further weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. additionally, the strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. changes in tax, environmental, trade or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could cause volatility or have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as tariffs, licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, ingredient regulations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, on december 22, 2017, h.r. 1, also known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ), was enacted in the u.s. this enactment resulted in a number of significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law for u.s. corporations. most notably, the statutory federal corporate income tax rate was changed from 35% to 21% for corporations and, as a result, we recorded an estimated net tax benefit of approximately $567 million in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2017 driven by the effects of the 2017 tax act on our deferred tax positions as of december 31, 2017. we continue to monitor the 2017 tax act, including proposed regulations which may change upon finalization, as well as yet to be issued regulations and interpretations. if the forthcoming regulations and interpretations change relative to our current understanding and initial assessment of the impacts of the 2017 tax act, the resulting impacts could have a material adverse impact on our tax rate and cash tax expectations. separately, in december 2018, the u.s. department of treasury issued a regulation that impacts our ability to claim a refund of certain federal duties, taxes, and fees paid for beer sold between the u.s. and certain other countries effective in february 2019, and, as a result, future claims will no longer be accepted, and further, we may be unable to collect approximately $38 million in historically claimed, but not yet received, refunds, which would negatively impact our revenue. additionally, modifications of u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment (including trade agreements and tariffs, such as the north american free trade agreement or aluminum tariffs) could adversely affect our supply chain, business and results of operations. for example, in june, u.s. 2018 tariffs on aluminum imports from canada, mexico and eu went into effect, which has created volatility in the price of aluminum in the u.s. and increased the price of aluminum used in some of our product packaging. continued imposition of u.s. aluminum tariffs, the implementation of additional tariffs and retaliatory tariffs from trade partners or related uncertainties could further increase the cost of certain of our imported materials, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations, the amount and timing of future taxable income and the interaction of such laws and regulations among jurisdictions. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. climate change, weather and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. changing weather patterns and more volatile weather conditions could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may impact quality, limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. furthermore, should weather patterns in our markets shift from warm or high temperatures to unseasonably cool or wet weather, consumption of our products may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain, distribution networks and routes to market, or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. 26 table of contents concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and water use. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business could be interrupted and our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terror attacks and other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed in recent years, and we have and continue to incur brewery closure costs. we regularly review our supply chain network to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. such reviews could potentially result in further closures and the related costs could be material. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several strategic joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the acquisition and our canadian business' joint venture with hexo. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; potential exposure to unknown or future liabilities or costs that affect the markets in which acquired companies or joint ventures operate; reputational or other damage due to the conduct of a joint venture partner; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, government regulation, court rulings or other changes in legal requirements, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these funding requirements also may require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such 27 table of contents cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating, cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. in addition, we made pension plan contributions during 2017 of approximately $310 million , including $200 million of discretionary contributions to the u.s. pension plan. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 50%, 35%, and 30% of our canadian, european and u.s. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions or councils. stringent labor laws in certain of our key markets expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in those markets. a prolonged labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the first quarter of 2017, our toronto brewery unionized employees commenced a labor strike initiated from on-going negotiations of the collective bargaining agreement. this labor strike resulted in slower than expected production at the toronto brewery in the first quarter of 2017. from time to time, our collective bargaining agreements come due for renegotiation, and, if we are unable to timely complete negotiations, affected employees may strike, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely extensively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions, obsolescence, or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. a breach of our information systems could cause material financial or reputational harm. our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of cyber-attacks or other breaches to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely prepare, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation, or damage our reputation and credibility. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight or consumers may avoid our brands due to negative publicity. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. if the pentland trust and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to our stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. if these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock 28 table of contents and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 8, "stockholders' equity" of the notes for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. changes in the social acceptability of alcohol, perceptions of our products and the political view of the alcohol beverage industry may harm our business. the alcoholic beverage industry is regularly the subject of anti-alcohol activist activity related to the health concerns from the misuse of alcohol and concerns regarding underage drinking and exposure to alcohol advertisements. in addition, in recent years, there has been an increase in public and political attention on health and well-being as it relates to the alcohol beverage and other industries. negative publicity regarding beer and changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer and other alcoholic beverages, could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products which could, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial conditions. additionally, the concerns around alcohol as well as health and well-being could result in unfavorable regulations or other legal requirements in certain of our markets, such as advertising, selling and other restrictions, increased taxes associated with our sales, or the establishment of minimum unit pricing. any such regulations or requirements could change consumer and customer purchasing patterns, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. in particular, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in early 2016, the government of bihar, india, the largest state in india in which our international segment operates, announced a complete prohibition on the sale and distribution of alcohol, which resulted in the impairment of assets totaling $30.8 million , recorded during the second quarter of 2016. the acquisition subjects us to significant additional liabilities, costs and other risks. we have assumed all of the liabilities of millercoors, including, among others, significant pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities. the assumed liabilities put additional pressure on our ability to successfully meet our deleveraging commitments and grow our business over time as discussed further below. in addition, as a result of the acquisition, we are subject to the risks of the u.s. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business is in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the u.s., canada and the u.k. economic conditions and consumer preferences in these markets will have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we face numerous risks associated with the integration of the miller international business. the acquisition of the miller international business may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities. the success of our acquisition of the miller international business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating this business with our existing businesses and operations. the potential difficulties of the continuing integration of operations include, among others: failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; inherent operating risks in the business; increased foreign currency exposures which could adversely affect the amounts recorded for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations; reliance on competitors, abi, to provide production services as we continue to transition the business; and 29 table of contents failure to develop sustainable production sources prior to the expiration of abi's production services. we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the company and the miller international business had achieved or might achieve separately. the markets in which the miller international business operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the miller international business. these markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. if the miller international business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the miller international business may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted. we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could adversely affect our business, reputation and stock price. as part of preparing our 2018 consolidated financial statements, we identified errors in the accounting for income taxes related to the deferred tax liabilities for our partnership in millercoors. see part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 1, "basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies" for further discussion. as a result of these errors, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, related to designing and maintaining effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of the accounting for, and disclosure of, the income tax effects of acquired partnership interests. specifically, we did not design appropriate controls to identify and reconcile deferred income taxes associated with the accounting for acquired partnership interests. this material weakness resulted in material errors in connection with our step acquisition of millercoors that were corrected through the restatement of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended december 31, 2017, and december 31, 2016, as described in part ii-item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 1, "basis of presentation and summary of significant accounting policies" to the consolidated financial statements and the correction of the unaudited quarterly financial information for fiscal years 2018 and 2017. additionally, this material weakness could result in misstatements to the aforementioned account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. as a result of the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organization of the treadway commission in internal control-an integrated framework (2013). we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future related to income tax or other controls. if the steps we take do not correct the material weakness in a timely manner, we may be unable to conclude in the future that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the occurrence of or failure to remediate this or future material weaknesses may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock. risks specific to the united states segment our u.s. business is highly dependent on independent distributors to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell nearly all of our products, including all of our imported products, in the u.s. to independent distributors for resale to retail outlets. these independent distributors are entitled to exclusive territories and protected from termination by state statutes and regulations. consequently, if we are not allowed, or are unable under acceptable terms or at all, to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the canada segment our canadian business faces numerous risks relating to its joint venture in the canadian cannabis industry. on october 4, 2018, a wholly-owned subsidiary within our canadian business completed the formation of an independent canadian joint venture with hexo, a canadian entity listed on the toronto stock exchange that serves the canadian cannabis market. the joint venture, truss lp, will pursue opportunities to develop non-alcoholic, cannabis-infused beverages for the canadian market following legalization. the success and consumer acceptance of any products produced by the joint venture cannot be assured. further, our canadian subsidiary's involvement in the canadian cannabis industry may negatively impact: consumer, business partner, investor or public sentiment regarding our brands, canadian beer business or our company. the emerging cannabis industry in canada and in other jurisdictions is evolving rapidly and subjects us to a high degree of political, legal and regulatory uncertainty, including when and if regulations in canada will ultimately be adopted that would allow the 30 table of contents sale of the non-alcoholic beverages contemplated by the joint venture. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation or acceleration of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the potential for an increase in beer excise taxes, could decrease our net sales. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the legalization of cannabis in canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer or our other products. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. if we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 29% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser, which was held by our canadian business, to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. we historically presented the liabilities associated with these indemnity obligations within discontinued operations, however, these have been reclassified into other current and long-term liabilities. risks specific to the europe segment the vote in the u.k. to leave the european union could adversely affect us. approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2018 came from the u.k., which is our largest market in europe. in 2016, a majority of voters in the u.k. voted in favor of the u.k. leaving the european union and the u.k. intends to withdraw from the european union in march 2019. the withdrawal remains controversial in the u.k., and the terms of the withdrawal remain unknown. the u.k. vote to leave the european union triggered a decline in the gbp in comparison to usd and eur. any significant weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. furthermore, the withdrawal may result in disruption to and decline of the u.k. and european economies. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm the beer business, and if such conditions emerge in the u.k. or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our europe segment. the withdrawal may also result in significant disruption in trade and the movement of goods, including prolonged transportation delays, which could negatively affect our ability to source raw materials and packaging for our products as well as our ability to import and export products. because the terms of the exit are still unknown, we face regulatory and market uncertainty and may need to quickly adapt to regulatory changes and market volatility, including potential increased legal and regulatory complexities and potential higher costs of conducting business in the u.k. or europe. any of these effects, among others, could adversely affect our european business, results of operations, and financial condition. economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and, in the future may be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to pricing, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise) for the industry in general. sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of this trend would further adversely affect our profitability. 31 table of contents risks specific to the international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. the continued expansion of our international segment in emerging markets depends on our ability to react to social, economic, and political conditions in those markets; to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets; and, in many cases, to find appropriate local partners. due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do, and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates and libor. to mitigate this exposure as it pertains to future debt offerings and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. we manage our foreign currency exposures through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter financial instruments. 74 table of contents equity price risk we currently hold warrants allowing us the option to purchase common shares of hexo corp. ("hexo"), our truss lp ("truss") joint venture partner in canada. these warrants are subject to equity price risk, representative of the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the market price of hexo's underlying common shares. details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2018 . see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 11, "debt" and note 16, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2018 year end 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value asset/ (liability) (in millions) long-term debt: cad 500 million 2.75% notes due 2020 $ $ 366.6 $ $ $ $ $ 366.6 $ (368.4 ) cad 500 million 2.84% notes due 2023 $ $ $ $ $ 366.6 $ $ 366.6 $ (357.4 ) cad 500 million 3.44% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 366.6 $ 366.6 $ (352.3 ) $500 million 1.45% notes due 2019 $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (498.1 ) $500 million 1.90% notes due 2019 $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (501.6 ) $500 million 2.25% notes due 2020 $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (502.8 ) $1.0 billion 2.10% notes due 2021 $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ (968.7 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ 500.0 $ (496.7 ) $2.0 billion 3.0% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,000.0 $ 2,000.0 $ (1,813.2 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,020.4 ) $1.8 billion 4.2% notes due 2046 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,800.0 $ 1,800.0 $ (1,529.1 ) eur 500 million notes due 2019 $ 573.4 $ $ $ $ $ $ 573.4 $ (573.7 ) eur 800 million 1.25% notes due 2024 $ $ $ $ $ $ 917.4 $ 917.4 $ (910.8 ) foreign currency management: forwards $ 156.1 $ 109.2 $ 59.3 $ 14.0 $ $ $ 338.6 $ 16.3 cross currency swaps $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 36.5 interest rate management: forward starting interest rate swaps $ $ $ 250.0 $ 250.0 $ $ 1,000.0 $ 1,500.0 $ (12.3 ) commodity pricing management: swaps $ 520.7 $ 268.2 $ 77.1 $ 2.4 $ $ $ 868.4 $ (42.0 ) options $ 46.6 $ $ $ $ $ $ 46.6 $ we hold warrants providing us with the ability to purchase 11.5 million common shares of hexo, our truss joint venture partner, at a strike price of cad 6.00 per share which expire on october 4, 2021. the fair value of our warrant asset at december 31, 2018 , was $19.6 million . sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, commodity options, cross currency swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps and warrants. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk, equity price risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. 75 table of contents the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolio, with the exception of interest rate risk to our forward starting interest rate swaps in which we have applied an absolute 1% adverse change to the respective instrument's interest rate: as of december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (35.1 ) $ (36.5 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (249.3 ) $ (310.0 ) cross currency swaps $ (43.3 ) $ interest rate risk: debt $ (302.1 ) $ (311.9 ) forward starting interest rate swaps $ (126.2 ) $ commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (77.5 ) $ (43.5 ) commodity options $ $ equity price risk: warrants $ (2.8 ) $ the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ materially from the results presented in the table above. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors , part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18, "commitments and contingencies" for further discussion. province of qu bec in qu bec, the distribution and sale of beer is governed by the quebec alcohol corporation ("saq"). beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through approved independent agents. we are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. the brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. qu bec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores, as well as government operated outlets. province of british columbia in british columbia, the government's liquor distribution branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. bdl, which we co-own with abi, manages the distribution of our products throughout british columbia. consumers can purchase beer at any liquor distribution branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. establishments licensed primarily for on-premise alcohol sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption. province of alberta in alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of u.s. sourced products. all sales of liquor in alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the alberta gaming and liquor commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. bdl manages the distribution of our products in alberta. other provinces our products are distributed in the provinces of manitoba and saskatchewan through local liquor boards. manitoba and saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. bdl manages the distribution of our products in manitoba and saskatchewan. in the maritime provinces (other than newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. in newfoundland, our products are sold through independent distributors. in yukon, northwest territories and nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products. 12 table of contents manufacturing, production and packaging brewing raw materials we use high quality ingredients to brew our products. we source barley malt from one primary provider, from which we have a committed supply through 2022. hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the u.s. and europe through contracts that vary in length based on market conditions and cover our supply requirements through 2021. other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in north america, through 2022. water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. we do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term. packaging materials the following summarizes the percentage of our canada segment's packaging materials by type for the year ended december 31, 2019 . aluminum cans or bottles: we source cans and lids from two primary providers with the related contracts ending december 2023. the distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. bottles: we single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through december 2021. the standard bottle for beer brewed in canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle and represents the vast majority of our bottle sales. bottle sales continue to decline as we have experienced a shift in consumers' preference toward aluminum cans. the standard returnable bottle requires significant investment behind our returnable bottle inventory and bottling equipment. the trend away from returnable bottles could result in higher fixed cost deleverage related to these assets and an ultimate decreased need for the assets that support this packaging, which could adversely impact profitability. stainless steel kegs: a limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. crowns are currently sourced from one major supplier with a contract through december 2021. paperboard and labels are currently sourced from one supplier each with contracts through december 2020 and december 2021, respectively. corrugate is purchased from a small number of sources with contracts through december 2020 and march 2021. we do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing any of our required packaging materials in the near term. contract manufacturing we have an agreement with north american breweries, inc. ("nab") to brew and package certain labatt brands for export to the u.s. market. 13 table of contents seasonality of business total industry volume in canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm and dry weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. accordingly, consumption of beer in canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from may through august. known trends and competitive conditions 2019 canada beer industry overview the canadian brewing industry is a mature market and abi and mcbc are the two largest brewers. it is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. these competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities. in 2019 , the ontario and qu bec markets accounted for approximately 62% of the total beer market in canada. there are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes craft and most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium). since 2001, the premium beer segment in canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. the beer industry has declined in five of the last six years. aging population and competition from other alcohol beverages have been the main contributors to the declining state of the beer industry. the following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, as a component of the overall canadian alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. we anticipate that 2019 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 beer 48 % 47 % 47 % 48 % 48 % other alcohol beverages 52 % 53 % 53 % 52 % 52 % our competitive position our brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences among these other categories. our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments. the following table summarizes the estimated percentage share of the canadian beer market represented by mcbc, abi and all other brewers over the last five years. current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 mcbc's share 31 % 32 % 33 % 33 % 34 % abi's share 41 % 42 % 42 % 43 % 43 % others' share 28 % 26 % 25 % 24 % 23 % regulation in canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production, distribution and sale of beer. in addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes on both domestically produced and imported beer. in 2019 , our canada segment excise taxes were approximately $52 per hectoliter sold on a reported basis. further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the united states, affect the canadian beer industry. 14 table of contents europe segment headquarters: burton-on-trent, u.k. approximately 6,600 employees as of december 31, 2019 europe's second largest brewer by volume, on a combined basis, within the european countries in which we operate, with an approximate aggregate 19% market share (excluding factored products) in 2019 currently operating twelve primary breweries, eight craft breweries and one cidery the majority of our european segment sales are in the u.k., croatia, czech republic and romania. our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, such as carling in the u.k., ozujsko in croatia, jelen in serbia and niksicko in montenegro. we have beers that rank in the top three in market share in their respective segments throughout the region, such as kamenitza in bulgaria and borsodi in hungary . additionally, we sell staropramen and miller genuine draft in various european countries. our europe segment includes our consolidated joint venture arrangement for the production and distribution of cobra brands in the u.k. and the republic of ireland and factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us). in january 2018, we purchased aspall cider limited in the u.k., which is a premium top ten cider in the u.k. in june 2019, we purchased a majority stake in pardubicky pivovar in the czech republic and in july 2019, we purchased the trade and assets of hop stuff brewery in the u.k., as part of our continued strategy to expand our craft beer portfolio. sales and distribution in europe, beer is generally distributed through either a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers, or a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. distribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers. most of our beer in the u.k. is sold directly to retailers. we have an agreement with tradeteam ltd. ("tradeteam", a subsidiary of dhl) to provide the distribution of our products throughout the u.k. until april 2029. we utilize several hundred third-party logistics providers across our central european operations. we also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in czech republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles. it is also common in the u.k. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies, which we refer to as factored brands, to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). approximately 17% of our europe segment net sales in 2019 represented factored brands. in addition, we have an agreement with heineken whereby they sell, market and distribute coors light in the republic of ireland, as well as agreements with abi to brew and distribute beck's , stella artois , lowenbrau and spaten and to distribute hoegaarden , leffe , and corona in central europe. channels in europe, the on-premise channel includes sales to pubs and restaurants. the installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets. this includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts. the off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. over the last few years, the off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains. generally, over the years, industry volumes in europe have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market. in 2019 , approximately 40% of sales were on-premise and 60% were off-premise. consistent with prior years, the on-premise channel has continued to experience declines from shifting consumer preference to off-premise partially due to smoking bans in many countries. manufacturing, production and packaging brewing raw materials we use high quality ingredients to brew our products. during 2019 , our malt requirements were sourced from third-party suppliers. we have multiple agreements with various suppliers that cover almost all of our total required malt, with terms ending in 2020 through 2026. hops are purchased under various contracts with suppliers in germany, the u.s. and the u.k., which cover our requirements through 2020. adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which are typically crop year contracts commencing in october of each year. water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells and through water rights and supply contracts. we do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term. 15 table of contents packaging materials the following summarizes the percentage of our europe segment's packaging materials by type for the year ended december 31, 2019 . bottles: a significant majority of glass returnable bottles are sourced under various agreements with third-party suppliers. kegs: a limited number of kegs are purchased each year from various suppliers, and we have no long-term supply commitment. we are currently in the process of signing new agreements which would cover all of our requirements for kegs in 2020. cans: we have long-term agreements with various suppliers that cover all of our required supply of cans, with terms ending in 2020 through 2023. recyclable plastic containers: we have multiple agreements with various manufacturers in the region, covering 100% of our requirements which expire in 2021. we do not currently anticipate any issues in renegotiating and extending contracts or in otherwise being able to access recyclable plastic containers. crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from sources unique to each category. we do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near term. seasonality of business in europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm and dry weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. accordingly, the peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the christmas and new year holiday season. known trends and competitive conditions 2019 europe beer industry overview based on current data, we estimate that the europe beer market will be nearly flat in 2019 compared to 2018 . since 2010, the off-premise market share has increased in our european markets from 55% to nearly 60% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 45% to just over 40%. europe beer industry retail shipments have fluctuated by approximately 1% to 2% annually over the last five years. these market fluctuations are consistent with the fluctuations within the overall alcohol market in each of the respective years. 16 table of contents our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines and spirits. the following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, as a component of the overall european alcohol market, within the countries in which we have production facilities, over the last five years, for which data is currently available. we anticipate that 2019 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 beer 29 % 29 % 30 % 30 % 30 % other alcohol beverages 71 % 71 % 70 % 70 % 70 % our competitive position in european countries where we currently operate, our primary competitors are heineken, asahi, abi and carlsberg. we believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. the following table summarizes our estimated percentage share of the beer market within the european countries where we operate and our primary competitors over the last five years. note that current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 mcbc's share 19 % 20 % 20 % 20 % 20 % primary competitors' share 56 % 56 % 56 % 57 % 56 % others' share 25 % 24 % 24 % 23 % 24 % regulation each country that is part of our europe segment is either a member of the european union ("eu") or a current candidate to join, with the exception of bosnia, which is a potential candidate, and the u.k., which exited the eu on january 31, 2020. as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. to operate breweries and conduct our business in europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies. the u.k. exited the eu on january 31, 2020, which subjects our europe segment to regulatory and market uncertainty as the u.k. remains in the eu customs union and single market until december 31, 2020, while the full terms of future trade agreements continue to be negotiated. see part i item 1a risk factors under "risks specific to the europe segment" for further discussion of the risks specific to the u.k.'s exit from the eu. each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages. with the exception of serbia, montenegro and bosnia, all countries' laws on excise taxes are consistent with the directives of the eu. with the exception of serbia, where a flat excise per hectoliter is used, all european countries use similar measurements based on either alcohol by volume or plato degrees. the eu excise directives are currently under review which may result in all jurisdictions being required to account by reference to alcohol by volume. in 2019 , the excise taxes for our europe segment were approximately $44 per hectoliter on a reported basis. refer to part i item 1a, risk factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in europe. international segment headquarters: denver, colorado (transitioning to north america operational headquarters in chicago, illinois, with asia pacific business transitioning to european headquarters in burton-on-trent, u.k. in 2020) approximately 400 employees as of december 31, 2019 international beer markets, including emerging markets in latin america, asia pacific and africa currently operating under export models, local third-party contract manufacturing and license agreements, as well as owned breweries, which brew and package brands sold in india our international segment strategy is centered on our focus markets and focus brands. our focus brands are coors light , miller lite and miller genuine draft , which are aligned with global priority brands and account for the majority of our volumes. the international segment's portfolio of beers competes within the above premium category in most of our markets. our principal competitors include large global brewers, as well as local brewers. as our international segment's objective is to grow and expand our business, we are developing scale and building market share in the countries where we operate. many of the markets in which we operate are considered emerging beer markets, with other brewers controlling the majority of the 17 table of contents market share. our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. as part of the acquisition of the miller international business, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into various transitional service agreements ( tsas ) with local sabmiller and now abi owned entities for services including the selling, distribution and production of miller brands. we have successfully created a presence and commercial routes to market and have established alternative production arrangements related to the miller brands. latin america in latin america, we use a combination of export models and license agreements to sell blue moon, coors light, miller genuine draft, miller high life, miller lite and other brands. in our export model markets, we import beer from the u.s. and sell it through agreements with independent distributors. in license markets, we have established exclusive licensing agreements with brewers and distributors for the manufacturing and distribution of our products. in certain of our markets, we rely on a combination of these agreements. asia pacific and africa our operations in the asia pacific region include markets such as australia, india, japan and south korea. our business in india consists primarily of operations in the states of haryana, punjab and uttar pradesh. our consolidated india business produces, markets and sells a beer portfolio consisting of thunderbolt, miller ace, miller high life and carling strong. we own three breweries in india (one of which is currently not operational as a result of the state of bihar, india's enactment of total alcohol prohibition in 2016), where we use high quality ingredients to brew our products, which are sourced through various contracts with local suppliers. we do not currently anticipate any significant disruption in the supply of these raw materials or brewing inputs in the near term. our japan business imports our brands and sells through independent wholesalers. our focus is on the marketing and selling of the blue moon, coors light, singha and zima brands. in australia, we license our brands to a local partner that distributes locally produced and imported products including blue moon , miller genuine draft, miller chill and other products for us. in south korea, our brands include blue moon , coors light , miller genuine draft and miller lite and are imported and sold through an independent distributor. in africa, we sell miller genuine draft in south africa and zambia. miller genuine draft is produced in south africa and sold through a local license agreement. during the first half of 2018, we decided to formally exit our business in china and, during 2019, we completed the liquidation of this business. corporate corporate is not a reportable segment and primarily includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. the majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, information technology, finance, internal audit, insurance, ethics and compliance, risk management, global growth, supply chain and commercial initiatives, as well as acquisition, integration and financing costs. additionally, corporate includes the results of our water resources and energy operations in colorado as well as the unrealized changes in fair value on our commodity swaps not designated in hedging relationships recorded within cost of goods sold, which are subsequently reclassified when realized to the segment in which the underlying exposure resides. other information global intellectual property we own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. we also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2038 relating to brewing methods, beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. we are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business. sustainability we believe in producing a beer we can be proud of, from barley to bottle. our beer print i mcbc's approach to sustainability and the right way to grow our business. our beer print is integral to how we will build long-term value for society and our shareholders, while leaving a positive imprint on our communities, on our environment and on our business. we have a long legacy of leaving a positive imprint on the environment and our community. mcbc has been recognized on the dow jones sustainability north america index for nine consecutive years for our sustainability performance. 18 table of contents in 2012, mcbc became a charter member of the international alliance for responsible drinking ("iard"). this collaborative industry body represents the 11 largest global brewers, distillers and vintners, and partners with public sector, civil society and private stakeholders. iard works with governments globally to target a 10% reduction in harmful use of alcohol by 2025. in 2017, we launched our beer print 2025 agenda, raising the bar on beer, a new sustainability strategy for mcbc and a set of ambitious goals to take us to 2025. we focused our efforts where we can have the most positive impact on our business and society. we established goals across three pillars - responsibly refreshing, sustainable brewing and collectively crafted - that aim to address the expectations of our consumers and stakeholders, while we continue to make our operations even more resource efficient and resilient. in 2019, we added new global packaging goals to our 2025 agenda, aiming for our packaging to be reusable, recyclable, compostable or biodegradable. we are also strengthening our goals to drive down packaging emissions, use more recycled materials in our plastic packaging and improve recycling solutions in our key markets by 2025. more information about our beer print 2025 agenda can be found on our sustainability website, www.ourbeerprint.com, which includes: our beer print report 2019, which presents the most recent progress made against our 2025 goals and highlights our recently launched packaging goals esg (environment, social and governance) report 2019, which includes more details on the underlying data, processes and policies that support esg topics; and sdg (sustainability development goals) impact report 2019, which shows how mcbc is taking action to contribute to the 17 global goals set forth by the united nations by 2030. the information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report. environmental matters our operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have an impact on human health or the environment. such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. while we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. we believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. however, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18, "commitments and contingencies" under the caption " environmental" for additional information regarding environmental matters. employees as of the end of 2019 , we employed approximately 17,700 employees within our business globally. specifically, we employed approximately 7,300 within our u.s. segment, 6,600 within our europe segment, 2,600 within our canada segment, 400 within our international segment, 200 within our corporate headquarters in colorado and 600 within our global business services center. under our recently announced revitalization plan the company is consolidating business units and offices to streamline the organization and find savings that will be reinvested back into the business. after taking into account all changes in each of the business units, including europe, the plan is expected to reduce employment levels, in aggregate, by approximately 500 to 600 employees globally. the company expects the costs associated with the restructuring to be substantially recognized by the end of fiscal year 2021. available information we file with, or furnish to, the sec reports, including our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act. these reports are available free of charge via edgar through the sec website (www.sec.gov) and are also available free of charge on our corporate website (www.molsoncoors.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. the foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. the information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report. 19 table of contents information about our executive officers the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of february 12, 2020 : name age position gavin d.k. hattersley 57 president and chief executive officer tracey i. joubert 53 chief financial officer simon j. cox 52 president and chief executive officer, molson coors europe peter j. marino 47 president, emerging growth e. lee reichert 53 chief legal and government affairs officer michelle e. st. jacques 42 chief marketing officer item 1a. risk factors investing in our company involves risk. the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this report. the risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. however, the risks set forth below are not a comprehensive description of the risks facing our company. we may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial but may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. if the following risks or uncertainties, individually or in combination, actually occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations or prospects. see also "cautionary statement pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995." risks specific to our company the global beer industry and the broader alcohol industry are constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. if we do not successfully transform along with evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. for many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements. in contrast, it has now become increasingly complex as the global consolidation of brewers has resulted in fewer major market participants. at the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced and/or regionally-sourced products. as a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. for example, the north american beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. however, evolution in these markets and our other beer markets, together with emerging changes to consumer preferences, have introduced a significant increase in market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. specifically, our u.s., canada and europe markets have experienced vast expansion in the craft beer industry along with the expansion of cider, flavored malt beverages (including hard seltzers), and other wellness beverages. if our competitors are able to respond more quickly to the evolving trends within the craft beer, cider, hard seltzer, flavored malt beverages and other wellness beverages categories, or if our new products are not successful, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. in addition, certain states in the u.s. have passed or are considering passing, and canada has passed, laws and regulations that allow the sale and distribution of cannabis. currently, it is not possible to predict the impact of this on sales of alcoholic beverages but it is possible that legal cannabis usage could adversely impact the demand for our products. furthermore, imported beers also continue to compete aggressively in the u.s. in canada, changes to interprovincial trade rules, regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles, may be disadvantageous to us. currently, in ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing and/or changing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to increase competition and choice. we also compete generally with other alcoholic beverages. we compete with other beer and beverage companies not only for drinker acceptance and loyalty, but also for shelf, cold box and tap space in retail establishments and for marketing focus by our distributors and their customers, all of which also distribute and sell other beers and alcoholic beverage products. 20 table of contents in addition, the broader alcohol industry is experiencing a rapid shift in drinking preferences and behaviors. we believe this has been driven by a generational demographic shift away from beer in particular towards other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. as discussed above, even within the beer industry we have seen a shift away from the traditionally most popular beer brands and segments and a corresponding expansion in the craft beer industry along with the expansion of cider, hard seltzers, flavored malt beverages and other wellness beverages. accordingly, we have initiated our revitalization plan, pursuant to which we will strive to achieve more consistent topline growth by expanding beyond beer and into adjacent beverage categories. however, if we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in many of our markets, our primary competitors have greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and may be more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital or other investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers and between brewers and other beverage companies may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and pressures from marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. further, consolidation of distributors in our industry could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the markets in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes our brands' value, as well as reduce our ability to manage our pricing effectively and efficiently. additionally, due to competition with brewers and other beverage companies, an increase in the purchasing power of our large competitors may cause further pricing pressures which could prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs necessary to compete. such pressures could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial results and market share. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures could result in lower margins or loss of market share and volumes. moreover, most of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our global competitors. for example, sales in north america accounted for approximately 80% of our total 2019 sales. our success as an enterprise currently depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products, consumption of our products decline or we are unable to successfully and timely innovate beyond beer, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. our coors light and miller lite brands in the u.s., coors light, molson canadian , coors banquet and carling brands in canada, and carling, staropramen, jelen, bergenbier and coors light brands in europe represented more than half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2019 . additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. recently, there has been more attention focused on health concerns and the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages which could result in a change in the social acceptability of beer and other alcoholic beverages which could materially impact the consumption of beer and our sales. additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically the u.s., canada and europe, there has been a shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by smaller, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. more recently, the rapid growth of hard seltzers in the u.s. may have shifted some consumers away from our brands and beer generally. moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have a significant share in such markets, therefore, small movements in consumer preference, such as consumer shifts away from premium light brands, can also disproportionately impact our results. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the emergence of legal cannabis in certain u.s. states and canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer. as a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer or a decline in the consumption of our products could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. furthermore, as part of our revitalization plan, our future topline growth will depend, in part, on our ability to timely innovate and develop new products beyond traditional beer. in connection with our revitalization plan, we plan to innovate, test and scale products faster than we have before. however, the launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain, especially with respect to consumer appeal. the launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an 21 table of contents unsuccessful launch or short-lived popularity of our product innovations could, among other things, affect consumer perception of our existing brands and our reputation as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors' products, especially over time, could negatively affect our growth, business, and financial results. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing brands and products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and the reputation of our brands and products. while we have quality control programs in place, in the event we or our third-party manufacturers experienced an issue with product quality or if any of our products become unsafe or unfit for consumption, are misbranded or cause injury, we may experience recalls or liability in addition to business disruption which could further negatively impact brand image and reputation, negatively affect our sales and cause us to incur additional costs. a widespread product recall, multiple product recalls or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. our brand image and reputation may also be more difficult to protect due to less oversight and control as a result of the outsourcing of some of our operations. we also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability, marketing or sales practices or intellectual property infringement. deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. in addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the molson or coors families that harm their public image or reputation could also have an adverse effect on our brands. further, our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights or that other parties may claim that our brands infringe on their intellectual property rights. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. weak, or weakening of, economic or other negative conditions in the markets in which we do business, including reductions in discretionary consumer spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country-specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. for example, a trend towards value brands in certain of our markets or deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a significant portion of our consolidated net sales revenues are concentrated in the u.s. therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, in the u.s. could negatively affect consumer demand for our product in this important market. under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our products to lower-priced products offered by other companies. softer consumer demand for our products, particularly in the u.s., could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. our restructuring activities related to our revitalization plan may not be successful and the estimated costs associated with such activities may be more than expected, and our restructuring activities may adversely impact employee hiring and retention. on october 28, 2019, as part of the revitalization plan, we made the determination to establish chicago, illinois as our north american operational headquarters, close our existing office in denver, colorado and consolidate certain administrative functions into our other existing office locations. in connection with these consolidation activities, we expect to incur certain cash and non-cash restructuring charges related to employee relocation, severance, retention and transition costs, non-cash asset related costs, lease exit costs in connection with office leases in denver, colorado, and other transition activities currently estimated in the range of approximately $120 million to $180 million in the aggregate, the majority of which will be cash charges that we began recognizing in the fourth quarter of 2019, and will be further spread through the balance of fiscal years 2020 and 2021. in 2019, we recognized aggregate special charges of approximately $43 million related to this estimated range, comprised primarily of severance and retention charges of which approximately $40 million remained accrued as of december 31, 2019. these expenses will adversely impact our results of operations during the relevant periods and will reduce our cash position. additionally, the amount of these estimated expenses, as well as our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings, revitalization plan goals and other benefits of our restructuring activities, are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. we may also experience additional costs in connection with these restructuring activities due to delays or other unforeseen circumstances. there is no assurance that we will successfully implement, or fully realize the anticipated costs and other benefits of our restructuring activities or execute successfully on our restructuring plan, in the time frames we desire or at all. if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits, including ongoing cost savings, or if we incur charges or costs in amounts that are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 22 table of contents in addition, in connection with the announcement that we plan to consolidate our office locations, we have experienced attrition in our workforce. as a result, we will be required to hire and train new employees to replace certain employees who were affected by our restructuring activities. the increased turnover in our employees could distract management and others from the operation of our business and make it more difficult to retain and hire new talent. the turnover and any resulting distraction could also negatively impact the overall performance of our employees, resulting in inefficiencies, higher short- or long-term costs, or decreased productivity. as a result of these or other similar risks, our business, plans, strategies, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. our significant debt level subjects us to financial and operating risks, and the agreements governing such debt subject us to financial and operating covenants and restrictions. our indebtedness subjects us to various financial and operating covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on priority indebtedness, leverage thresholds, liens, certain types of secured debt and certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets, each of which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. if we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. such a default would adversely affect our credit ratings, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness, and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. our significant debt level and the terms of such debt could, among other things: make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness; limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions, including successfully execute our revitalization plan, and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to make unfavorable changes to our current financing structure; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic opportunities, including acquisitions or other investments, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and adversely impact our competitive position in the industry. in addition, certain of our current and future debt and derivative financial instruments have or, in the future, could have interest rates that are tied to reference interest rates, such as the libor. the volatility and availability of such reference rates are out of our control. accordingly, changes to or the unavailability of such rates, could result in increases to the cost of debt which would negatively affect our profitability. for example, in 2017, the uk's financial conduct authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer persuade or compel panel banks to submit the rates required to calculate libor, and it is unclear whether the banks currently reporting information used to set libor will stop doing so after 2021. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to libor or any other reference rate, or the establishment of alternative reference rates will have on us. however, should libor no longer be available or if the methods of calculating libor change from their current form, our borrowing costs could increase, which would negatively affect our profitability, and the attractiveness of borrowings under our current credit facility or future debt issuances could diminish, thereby limiting our access to capital. a deterioration in our credit rating could increase our borrowing rates or have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing or refinance current debt. ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels if we are unable to meet our deleveraging commitments. while we have publicly expressed our intention to maintain an investment grade debt rating, ratings are determined by third-party rating agencies. a credit ratings downgrade, particularly a downgrade below investment grade, could increase our costs of future borrowing and harm our ability to refinance our debt in the future on acceptable terms or access the capital markets. 23 table of contents default by, or failure of, one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses. as part of our risk management activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including, among others, forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, option contracts, with various financial institutions. in addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, governmental regulations, including tariffs, frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, changes in precipitation patterns, the frequency of extreme weather events, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases, theft and industry surcharges and other practices. for example, in june 2018, u.s. tariffs on aluminum imports from canada, mexico and eu went into effect (though the u.s. lifted the aluminum tariffs on canada and mexico in may 2019), which has created volatility in the price of aluminum in the u.s. and increased the price of aluminum used in some of our product packaging. in addition, our north america business unit is exposed to variability in the market price of a regional premium differential (referred to as midwest premium in the u.s.) charged by industry participants to deliver aluminum from the smelter to the manufacturing facility. this premium differential also fluctuates in relation to several conditions, including based on the supply of and demand for aluminum in a particular region, associated transportation costs and warehouse financing transactions, which limit the amount of physical aluminum available to consumers and increases the price differential as a result. during times of greater volatility in the midwest premium, the variability in our cost of goods sold can also increase. in addition to impacting the price we pay for the raw materials we purchase, changing premium differentials impact our end consumers as we must either pass on the increased cost to those consumers or experience a decrease in our profit margins as a result of the midwest premium differential. increases in the midwest premium, or the inability to pass through any fluctuation in aluminum prices or regional premiums to our end consumers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the availability or prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. unfavorable outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition. we are from time to time involved in or subject to legal or regulatory proceedings related to our business. such proceedings can be complex, costly, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. the assessment of the outcome of such proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. the outcome of litigation, arbitration, regulatory or other proceedings, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon judgment or settlement, may differ materially from management's outlook or estimates, including any amounts accrued in the financial statements. actual outcomes, including judgments, awards, settlements or orders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. for example, as a result of the acquisition, we allocated approximately $6.3 billion and $7.6 billion to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, we identified a triggering event requiring an interim impairment assessment of the goodwill within our canada 24 table of contents reporting unit at the end of the third quarter of 2019, which resulted in a goodwill impairment loss of $668.3 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2019. furthermore, in the fourth quarter of 2016, an impairment loss of $495.2 million was recorded on the molson core brand indefinite-lived intangible assets and it was determined that the molson core brands had characteristics that had evolved which indicated a definite-life was more appropriate. these brands were therefore reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets and are being amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of october 1, 2019 , the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of the u.s., europe and canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 17% , 12% and 0% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. in the current year testing, it was determined that the fair value of the u.s. and canada reporting units declined during the year, while there was a slight increase in the fair value of the europe reporting unit versus the prior year. as a result of our testing, the europe and canada reporting units continue to be considered at risk of future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged weakening of economic conditions, or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations thereof), terminal growth rates, market multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analyses. the canada coors light distribution agreement indefinite-lived intangible asset is also considered to be at risk of future impairment with a fair value estimated at approximately 11% in excess of its carrying value as of the impairment testing date. although the fair values of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are either equal to or in excess of their carrying values, the fair values are sensitive to the aforementioned potential unfavorable changes that could have an adverse impact on future analyses. any future impairment of the u.s., europe or canada reporting units or brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results, as evidenced by the charges incurred during the third quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2016, as previously noted above. the testing of our goodwill for impairment is also predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. see part ii item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, critical accounting estimates and part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 10, "goodwill and intangible assets" for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution/production agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements, such as our agreement to import, market, distribute and sell certain heineken brands in canada, our arrangements with abi to brew and distribute beck's , stella artois , lowenbrau and spaten and to distribute hoegaarden , leffe , and corona in central europe. we also have agreements with asahi for the production and import of pilsner urquell and peroni nastro azurro into the u.s. under perpetual royalty-free license. these agreements have varying expiration dates and performance criteria, with several agreements approaching expiration in the near future. non-renewal of these agreements or loss of one more or more of these arrangements, because of failure of performance, failure to come to terms on a negotiated extension, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems in canada organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. we purchase certain types of packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additionally, if the financial condition of these suppliers deteriorates our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. our suppliers' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including: competitive and general market conditions in the locations in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. a deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major suppliers could adversely affect our business and financial results. 25 table of contents risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our joint ventures with ball corporation (i.e. rocky mountain metal container), and with owens-brockway glass container inc. (i.e. rocky mountain bottle company), for a portion of our aluminum and glass packaging supply in the u.s. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. in addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. we expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally, including in connection with our acquisition of the miller international business. in certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and u.s. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, each of which could have a materially negative effect on our reputation, brands and our operating results. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and u.s. laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. many countries in which we operate regulate the distribution of alcohol products and if those regulations were changed, it could alter our business practices and have material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that governs the sale of malt beverage products. that system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, dates back to the repeal of prohibition and is periodically subject to legal challenges. to the extent that such challenges are successful and allow changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. segment results of operations. further, in canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. additionally, in certain canadian provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as bri and bdl, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. bri owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as the beer store, in ontario, and bdl facilitates the distribution of our products in the western canadian provinces. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the canadian dollar and the european operating currencies such as, euro, british pound, czech koruna, croatian kuna, serbian dinar, new romanian leu, bulgarian lev and hungarian forint. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and throughout europe. because our financial statements are presented in usd, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not 26 table of contents effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. for example, as a result of the u.k. vote in 2016 to leave the european union, the gbp experienced a significant decline in comparison to usd and eur and may continue to be volatile. any significant further weakening of the gbp to the usd, including in connection with the uncertainty regarding the future trade agreements following the u.k.'s exit from the european union, will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance and relative magnitude of u.k. sales. additionally, the strengthening of the usd against the canadian dollar, european currencies and various other global currencies would adversely impact our usd reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. changes in tax, environmental, trade or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could cause volatility or have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business is highly regulated by national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as tariffs, licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, ingredient regulations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, on december 22, 2017, the 2017 tax act was enacted in the u.s. this enactment resulted in a number of significant changes to u.s. federal income tax law for u.s. corporations. most notably, the statutory federal corporate income tax rate was changed from 35% to 21% for corporations and, as a result, we recorded an estimated net tax benefit of approximately $567 million in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2017 driven by the effects of the 2017 tax act on our deferred tax positions as of december 31, 2017. additionally, since 2018, the u.s. department of treasury has continued to issue proposed, temporary and final regulations to implement provisions of the 2017 tax act. we have continued to monitor these and while temporary and final regulations have not yet resulted in material adverse impacts to us, there are certain proposed regulations, which are not yet considered law, that if finalized as proposed, could result in a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. specifically, if certain of the proposed regulations are finalized as proposed with full retroactive application to january 1, 2018, then we would be required to recognize estimated income tax expense of approximately $100 million to $200 million upon enactment related to the proposed retroactive period through december 31, 2019, for fiscal years 2018 and 2019. this estimated range contains significant uncertainty and could be impacted by various factors, including any differences between the proposed and ultimately finalized regulations. separately, in december 2018, the u.s. department of treasury issued a regulation that impacts our ability to claim a refund of certain federal duties, taxes, and fees paid for beer sold between the u.s. and certain other countries effective as of february 2019, and, as a result, based on the terms of the regulation, it is the u.s department of treasury's view that future claims will no longer be accepted, and further, we may be unable to collect approximately $40 million in historically claimed, but not yet received, refunds, which would negatively impact our revenue. in january 2020, the united states court of international trade issued an opinion and order ruling the challenged portions of this regulation dealing with refunds of certain federal duties, taxes and fees paid with respect to certain imported beer, to the extent of certain exported beer, to be unlawful. the u.s. department of treasury has until february 18, 2020 to provide a response to the proposed final judgment. additionally, modifications of u.s. laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment, including trade agreements and tariffs such as the united states-mexico-canada agreement (a new trade agreement between the u.s. government and the canadian and mexican governments which will replace the north american free trade agreement when ratified), or aluminum tariffs, could adversely affect our supply chain, business and results of operations. for example, in june 2018, u.s. tariffs on aluminum imports from canada, mexico and eu went into effect (though the u.s. lifted the aluminum tariffs on canada and mexico in may 2019), which has created volatility in the price of aluminum in the u.s. and increased the price of aluminum used in some of our product packaging. continued imposition of u.s. aluminum tariffs, the implementation of additional tariffs and retaliatory tariffs from trade partners or related uncertainties could further increase the cost of certain of our imported materials, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. furthermore, various jurisdictions have adopted, or may seek to adopt, additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our beverages relating to perceived adverse health consequences of some of our beverages. if additional or more severe requirements of this type are imposed on one or more of our beverages under current or future laws or regulations, they could inhibit sales of such beverages in such jurisdictions. in addition, we cannot predict whether our beverages will become subject to increased rules and regulations regarding labeling or warnings which, if enacted, could increase our costs or adversely impact sales. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition 27 table of contents and results of operations. additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations, the amount and timing of future taxable income and the interaction of such laws and regulations among jurisdictions. given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. climate change and other weather events may negatively affect our business and financial results. our business depends, in large part, upon agricultural activity and natural resources. there is concern that carbon monoxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global average temperatures, which could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. changing weather patterns and more volatile weather conditions could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may impact quality, limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. furthermore, should weather patterns in our markets shift from warm or high temperatures to unseasonably cool or wet weather, consumption of our products may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain, distribution networks and routes to market, or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. concern over climate change may result in new or increased regional, federal and global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns. in the event that such regulation is more stringent than current regulatory obligations or the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor and improve our energy efficiency and water conservation, we may experience disruptions in, or increases in our costs of, operation and delivery and we may be required to make additional investments in facilities and equipment or relocate our facilities. in particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. as a result, the effects of climate change or water scarcity could negatively affect our business and operations. in addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to water use and the environment or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or water scarcity could result in adverse publicity and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. there is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, customers and consumers on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, climate impact and water use. our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to our impact on the environment. an inadequate supply or availability or quality water could have a material adverse effect on, among other things, our sales, production processes, other costs and, in turn, profitability. quality water is a key ingredient in our brewing process. clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. further, unavailability of clean water at our breweries could limit our ability to brew, which could cause a decrease in production. we and our suppliers are dependent on sufficient amounts of quality water for operation of our breweries and key facilities and the key facilities of our significant suppliers. the suppliers of the agricultural raw materials we purchase are also dependent upon sufficient supplies of quality water for their fields. a substantial reduction in water in certain agricultural areas could result in material losses of crops, such as barley or hops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply. if water available to our operations or the operations of our suppliers becomes scarce or the quality of that water deteriorates, we may incur increased production costs or face production constraints. loss, operational disruptions or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. our business could be interrupted and our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terror attacks and other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. if any of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers were to experience a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss, it could delay or disrupt production, shipments and revenue, and result in potentially significant expenses to repair or replace these properties. 28 table of contents additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. for example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed in recent years, and we have and continue to incur brewery closure costs, including charges associated with the planned closure of the irwindale brewery in 2020. we regularly review our supply chain network to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. such reviews could potentially result in further closures and the related costs could be material. failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several strategic joint ventures. in order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the acquisition and our canadian business' joint venture with hexo and the various other craft acquisitions we have made recently. potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; potential exposure to unknown or future liabilities or costs that affect the markets in which acquired companies or joint ventures operate; reputational or other damage due to the conduct of a joint venture partner; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, government regulation, court rulings or other changes in legal requirements, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. these funding requirements also may require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating, cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. for example, following the completion of the triennial review of the u.k. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a gbp 150 million contribution to our u.k. pension plan in january 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. in addition, we made pension plan contributions during 2017 of approximately $310 million, including $200 million of discretionary contributions to the u.s. pension plan. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in canada, europe, and the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 45%, 35%, and 30% of our canadian, european and u.s. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions or councils. stringent labor laws in certain of our key markets expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in those markets. a prolonged labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in the first quarter of 2017, our toronto 29 table of contents brewery unionized employees commenced a labor strike initiated from on-going negotiations of the collective bargaining agreement. this labor strike resulted in slower than expected production at the toronto brewery in the first quarter of 2017. from time to time, our collective bargaining agreements come due for renegotiation, and, if we are unable to timely complete negotiations, affected employees may strike, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely extensively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. we use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. as information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions, obsolescence, or security breaches. additionally, if one of our service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. a breach of our information systems could cause material financial or reputational harm. our information systems may be the target of cyber-attacks or other security breaches, which, if successful, could, among other things, expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information, cause us to breach our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, create an inability to access or rely upon critical business records or cause a disruption of our operations. these breaches may result from human errors, equipment failure, or fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties. if our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. we expend significant financial resources to protect against threats and cyber-attacks and may be required to further expend financial resources to alleviate problems caused by physical, electronic and cyber security breaches. as techniques used to breach security are growing in frequency and sophistication and are generally not recognized until launched against a target, regardless of our expenditures and protection efforts, we may not be able to implement security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, these measures could be circumvented. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation, damage our reputation and credibility or expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, loss of existing or potential future customers and/or increases in our security costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight or consumers may avoid our brands due to negative publicity. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in the event of a breach resulting in loss of data, such as personally identifiable information or other such data protected by data privacy or other laws, we may be liable for damages, fines and penalties for such losses under applicable regulatory frameworks despite not handling the data. further, the regulatory framework around data custody, data privacy and breaches varies by jurisdiction and is an evolving area of law. we may not be able to limit our liability or damages in the event of such a loss. if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to our stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors. pentland securities (1981) inc. ("pentland") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust") (a trust controlled by the coors family and related parties), which together control more than 90% of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. if these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take 30 table of contents certain transformational actions. thus, it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. the interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. our class b common stock has fewer voting rights than our class a common stock and holders of our class a common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on class b stockholders. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 8, "stockholders' equity" for additional information regarding voting rights of class a and class b stockholders. changes in the social acceptability of alcohol, perceptions of our products and the political view of the alcohol beverage industry may harm our business. the alcoholic beverage industry is regularly the subject of anti-alcohol activist activity related to the health concerns from the misuse of alcohol and concerns regarding underage drinking and exposure to alcohol advertisements. in addition, in recent years, there has been an increase in public and political attention on health and well-being as it relates to the alcohol beverage and other industries. negative publicity regarding beer and changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer and other alcoholic beverages, could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products which could, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial conditions. additionally, the concerns around alcohol as well as health and well-being could result in unfavorable regulations or other legal requirements in certain of our markets, such as advertising, selling and other restrictions, increased taxes associated with our sales, or the establishment of minimum unit pricing. any such regulations or requirements could change consumer and customer purchasing patterns, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. in particular, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. for example, in early 2016, the government of bihar, india, the largest state in india in which our international segment operates, announced a complete prohibition on the sale and distribution of alcohol, which resulted in the impairment of assets totaling $30.8 million , recorded during the second quarter of 2016. our internal control over financial reporting may not be designed or operate effectively which could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, which could, in turn, have a significant adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in exchange act rule 13a-15(f). we previously identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, and as a result, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organization of the treadway commission in internal control-an integrated framework (2013). we believe this material weakness has been fully addressed by the remediation measures put in place during the 2019 fiscal year. however, we cannot provide assurance that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. any of the foregoing may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock. additional risks applicable to the united states segment our u.s. business is highly dependent on independent distributors to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell nearly all of our products, including all of our imported products, in the u.s. to independent distributors for resale to retail outlets. these independent distributors are entitled to exclusive territories and protected from termination by state statutes and regulations. consequently, if we are not allowed, or are unable under acceptable terms or at all, to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. additional risks applicable to the canada segment government mandated changes to the retail distribution model resulting from new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our canada business. in june 2019, the ontario government adopted a bill that, if enacted, would terminate a 10-year master framework agreement that was originally signed between the previous government administration and mcbc, labatt brewing company limited, sleeman breweries ltd., and brewers retail inc. in 2015 and governs the terms of the beer distribution and retail systems in ontario through 2025. the government has not yet proclaimed the bill as law. the impacts of these potential legislative changes are unknown at this time but could have a negative impact on the results of 31 table of contents operations, cash flows and financial position of the canada segment. while discussions remain ongoing with the government to reach a mutually agreeable alternative to the enactment of the law, we and the other master framework agreement signatories are prepared to vigorously defend our rights and pursue legal recourse, should the master framework agreement be unilaterally terminated by the enactment of the legislation. our canadian business faces numerous risks relating to its joint venture in the canadian cannabis industry. in 2018, a wholly-owned subsidiary within our canadian business completed the formation of an independent canadian joint venture with hexo, a canadian entity listed on the new york stock exchange and the toronto stock exchange that serves the canadian cannabis market. the joint venture, truss lp, is developing non-alcoholic, cannabis-infused beverages for the canadian market subject to obtaining all of the required licenses and regulatory clearances. the success and consumer acceptance of any products produced by the joint venture cannot be assured. further, our canadian subsidiary's involvement in the canadian cannabis industry may negatively impact: consumer, business partner, investor or public sentiment regarding our brands, canadian beer business or our company. the emerging cannabis industry in canada and in other jurisdictions is evolving rapidly and subjects us to a high degree of political, legal and regulatory uncertainty. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may experience adverse effects on our canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. if the canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. additionally, continuation or acceleration of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. further, changes in the canadian tax legislation, such as the potential for an increase in beer excise taxes, could decrease our net sales. although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the legalization of cannabis in canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer or our other products. moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability. if we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 27% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. indemnities provided to the purchaser of our previous interest in the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our previous ownership interest in kaiser, which was held by our canadian business, to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. additional risks applicable to the europe segment the vote in the u.k. to leave the european union could adversely affect us. approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2019 came from the u.k., which is our largest market in europe. the u.k. exited the european union on january 31, 2020, which subjects our europe segment to regulatory and market uncertainty in the u.k. and in the rest of europe as the full terms of future trade agreements continue to be negotiated. the u.k. vote to leave the european union triggered a decline in the gbp in comparison to usd and eur. any significant weakening of the gbp to the usd will have an adverse impact on our european revenues as reported in usd due to the importance of u.k. sales. furthermore, the withdrawal may result in disruption to and decline of the u.k. and european economies. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm the beer business, and if such conditions emerge in the u.k. or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our europe segment. the withdrawal may also result in significant disruption in trade and the movement of goods, including prolonged transportation delays, which could negatively affect our ability to source raw materials and packaging for our products as well as our ability to import and export products. because the terms of the exit are still unknown and will continue to be negotiated during 2020, we face regulatory and market uncertainty and may need to quickly adapt to regulatory changes and market volatility, including potential increased legal and regulatory complexities and 32 table of contents potential higher costs of conducting business in the u.k. or the rest of europe. any of these effects, among others, could adversely affect our european business, results of operations, and financial condition. economic trends and intense competition in european markets could unfavorably affect our profitability. our european businesses have been, and, in the future may be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a weakening of their respective currencies versus the u.s. dollar. additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our european markets, particularly with respect to pricing, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. in particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. in addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise) for the industry in general. sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of this trend would further adversely affect our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier-based and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. department of treasury rates, canadian government rates and libor. to mitigate this exposure as it pertains to future debt offerings and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. we manage our foreign currency exposures through foreign currency forward contracts and foreign-denominated debt. we may also enter into cross currency swaps from time to time. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts and over-the-counter financial instruments. equity price risk we currently hold warrants allowing us the option to purchase common shares of hexo corp. ("hexo"), our truss lp ("truss") joint venture partner in canada. these warrants are subject to equity price risk, representative of the potential future loss of value that would result from a decline in the market price of hexo's underlying common shares. 66 table of contents details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments are included in the table below. notional amounts and fair values are presented in usd based on the applicable exchange rate as of december 31, 2019 . see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 11, "debt" and note 16, "derivative instruments and hedging activities" for further discussion. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2019 year end 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value asset/ (liability) (in millions) long-term debt: cad 500 million 2.75% notes due 2020 $ 384.9 $ $ $ $ $ $ 384.9 $ (388.9 ) cad 500 million 2.84% notes due 2023 $ $ $ $ 384.9 $ $ $ 384.9 $ (390.2 ) cad 500 million 3.44% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 384.9 $ 384.9 $ (392.0 ) $500 million 2.25% notes due 2020 $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (503.2 ) $1.0 billion 2.10% notes due 2021 $ $ 1,000.0 $ $ $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ (1,011.6 ) $500 million 3.5% notes due 2022 $ $ $ 500.0 $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ (517.4 ) $2.0 billion 3.0% notes due 2026 $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,000.0 $ 2,000.0 $ (2,056.2 ) $1.1 billion 5.0% notes due 2042 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,100.0 $ 1,100.0 $ (1,201.9 ) $1.8 billion 4.2% notes due 2046 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,800.0 $ 1,800.0 $ (1,835.5 ) eur 800 million 1.25% notes due 2024 $ $ $ $ $ 897.0 $ $ 897.0 $ (927.8 ) foreign currency management: forwards $ 140.4 $ 78.6 $ 18.9 $ $ $ $ 237.9 $ 2.1 cross currency swaps $ 500.0 $ 400.0 $ $ $ $ $ 900.0 $ 10.0 interest rate management: forward starting interest rate swaps $ $ 250.0 $ 250.0 $ $ $ 1,000.0 $ 1,500.0 $ (111.5 ) commodity pricing management: swaps $ 391.2 $ 180.1 $ 27.1 $ $ $ $ 598.4 $ (41.2 ) options $ 18.4 $ $ $ $ $ $ 18.4 $ we hold warrants providing us with the ability to purchase 11.5 million common shares of hexo, our truss joint venture partner, at a strike price of cad 6.00 per share, which expire on october 4, 2021. the fair value of our warrant asset at december 31, 2019 was $2.7 million . sensitivity analysis our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are debt, foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, commodity options, cross currency swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps and warrants. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk, equity price risk and related derivatives using a sensitivity analysis. 67 table of contents the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis, which reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in each of these risks to our derivative and debt portfolio, with the exception of interest rate risk to our forward starting interest rate swaps in which we have applied an absolute 1% adverse change to the respective instrument's interest rate: as of december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (25.8 ) $ (35.1 ) foreign currency denominated debt $ (194.2 ) $ (249.3 ) cross currency swaps $ (89.2 ) $ (43.3 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (255.4 ) $ (302.1 ) forward starting interest rate swaps $ (150.4 ) $ (126.2 ) commodity price risk: commodity swaps $ (52.9 ) $ (77.5 ) commodity options $ $ equity price risk: warrants $ (0.6 ) $ (2.8 ) the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ materially from the results presented in the table above. 68 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to govern the strategic management of these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. by policy, we do not enter into any contracts for the purpose of trading or speculation. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are british pound sterling (gbp), canadian dollar (cad) and japanese yen (yen). derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments, or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (s&amp;p) or a2 (moody's). in some instances we and our counterparties have reciprocal collateralization agreements regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. at december 29, 2002, no collateral was posted by us or our counterparties. on february 2, 2002, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of bass holdings ltd. and certain other intangible assets from interbrew. we also paid off certain intercompany loan balances with interbrew for a total purchase price of 1.2 billion gbp (approximately $1.7 billion at prevailing exchange rates then in existence), plus associated fees, expenses and a restructuring provision. this business was subsequently renamed cbl. as part of our strategy to limit the possible effects of foreign exchange on our acquisition of cbl and the subsequent financial structure implemented for the acquisition, we evaluated and entered into a number of derivative instruments. in december 2001, we entered into a commitment with lenders for the financing of the acquisition of cbl assets. embedded in the commitment letter was a foreign currency option, purchased by us, which limited our maximum amount of u.s. dollars required to fund the acquisition. at the time our acquisition bid was accepted we entered into a foreign currency forward sale agreement to fix the gbp value of some of our cash on hand that was used to fund the acquisition. the option in the loan commitment expired on february 11, 2002, and the foreign currency forward sale settled on january 12, 43 2002. these two transactions resulted in a combined loss and amortization expense of $1.2 million realized during the first quarter of 2002. in connection with our acquisition of the cbl business, we entered into new senior unsecured credit facilities, borrowing $800 million of 5-year term debt and $750 million of bridge financing. these funds were subsequently exchanged for gbp and used to close the transaction. in order to better match our assets and liabilities the $750 million of bridge financing was recorded as an intercompany loan of 530 million gbp. upon establishing the intercompany loan, we entered into a forward sale agreement for 530 million gbp. the forward sale agreement was made in order to hedge the effect of fluctuations in the gbp exchange rates on the re-measurement of the intercompany loan. the forward sale agreement expired on may 7, 2002. the change in fair value of the forward sale was offset largely by increases or decreases in the value of the intercompany loan. (see derivative instruments footnote 12 to the consolidated financial statements). since the underlying financing associated with the intercompany loan was short-term in nature (the bridge loan), and because our forward sale agreements established as hedges of the intercompany loan expired on may 7, 2002, we were exposed to fluctuations of the gbp exchange rate on our cash requirement to settle the forwards and repay the bridge loan. therefore, on february 2, 2002, we paid approximately $1.7 billion for a 530 million gbp call option with a strike rate of 1.48 u.s. dollars to gbp. this option expired may 7, 2002. this option limited the maximum amount of u.s. dollars required to settle our forward sale agreement and repay our bridge loan obligations. the cash needed to settle our forward sale of 530 gbp, and subsequently, the $750 million bridge loan was satisfied by our private placement of $850 million principal amount of 6 3 / 8 % senior notes, due 2012 (see derivative instruments footnote 12 to the consolidated financial statements) and cash on hand. amortization expense of approximately $1.7 million related to the call option was recognized in the first quarter of 2002. on may 7, 2002, we entered into certain cross currency swaps totaling 530 million gbp (approximately $774 million). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal on the date of the private placement and will require final principal exchange 10 years later. the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed u.s. dollar interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid u.s. dollars to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive u.s. dollars. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of the changes in value of the future gbp interest and principal receipts that resulted from changes in the u.s. dollar to gbp exchange rates on an intercompany loan between cbc and our europe subsidiary. on may 28, 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to $76.2 million of our 6 3 / 8 % senior notes due 2012. the interest rate swap converted $76.2 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and matures in 2012. we will receive fixed u.s. dollar interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 6 3 / 8 % per annum and pay a rate to our counterparty based on a credit spread of 0.789% plus the three-month libor rate, thereby exchanging a fixed interest obligation for a floating interest rate obligation. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swap. we designated the interest rate swap as a fair value hedge of the changes in the fair value of $76.2 million of our 6 3 / 8 % senior notes due 2012 attributable to changes in the libor swap rates. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using two techniques-sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk. our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. 44 we use value-at-risk to monitor the foreign exchange and interest rate risk of our cross-currency swaps. the value-at-risk provides an estimate of the level of a one-day loss that may be equaled or exceeded due to changes in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate and interest rate-sensitive financial instruments. the type of value-at-risk model used to estimate the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value is a variance/covariance method. the value-at-risk model assumes normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used to compute value at risk. the computations used to derive our values take into account various correlations between currency rates and interest rates. the correlations have been determined by observing foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the most recent one-year period. we have excluded anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the value-at-risk calculation, some of which these instruments are intended to hedge. the value-at-risk calculation is a statistical measure of risk exposure based on probabilities and is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that we may incur. the calculated value-at-risk result does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. it attempts to represent the most likely measure of potential loss that may be experienced 95 times out of 100 due to adverse market events that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by value-at-risk because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments, hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our cross-currency swaps, derived using the value-at-risk model, was $8.6 million at december 29, 2002. as we did not enter into the cross currency swaps until the second quarter of 2002, there is no comparable one-day loss in fair value at december 30, 2001. such a hypothetical loss in fair value is a combination of the foreign exchange and interest rate components of the cross currency swap. value changes due to the foreign exchange component would be offset completely by increases in the value of our inter-company loan, the underlying transaction being hedged. the hypothetical loss in fair value attributable to the interest rate component would be deferred until termination or maturity. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include foreign currencies, commodity swaps, interest rate swap and cross-currency swaps. notional principal amounts (usd) fair values maturity (in thousands) december 29, 2002 foreign currency management forwards $ 19,655 $ 106 01/03-12/03 cross currency swap 773,800 (43,621 ) 05/12 commodity pricing management swaps 112,573 (4,630 ) 03/03-09/04 interest rate pricing management interest rate swap 76,200 8,493 05/12 december 30, 2001 foreign currency management option(1) 1,705,000 (1,023 ) 02/02 forwards 217,370 2,336 01/02-04/03 commodity pricing management swaps 132,477 (10,563 ) 02/02-02/04 (1) the foreign exchange option for $1.7 billion notional was purchased to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the gbp exchange rate related to acquisition of certain cbl assets. this option was settled in may 2002. 45 maturities of derivative financial instruments held on december 29, 2002, are as follows (in thousands): 2003(2) 2004 and thereafter $(3,747) $ (35,905 ) (2) amount includes the estimated deferred net loss of $4.0 million that is expected to be recognized over the next 12 months, on certain forward foreign exchange contracts and production and packaging materials derivative contracts, when the underlying forecasted cash flow transactions occur. inter-company loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of cross-currency swaps with third parties. a sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis of our derivative and debt portfolio: as of estimated fair value volatility december 29, 2002 december 30, 2001 (in millions) foreign currency risk: forwards, options $ (2.1 ) $ (22.2 ) interest rate risk: debt, swaps $ (42.1 ) $ (0.4 ) commodity price risk: swaps $ (10.8 ) $ (12.2 ) 46quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to manage these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. by policy, we do not enter into any contracts for the purpose of trading or speculation. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are british pound sterling (gbp), canadian dollar (cad) and japanese yen (yen). 44 derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments, or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (s&amp;p) or a2 (moody's). in some instances we and our counterparties have reciprocal collateralization agreements regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to us or our counterparties exceeds a certain amount. at december 26, 2004, no collateral was posted by us or our counterparties. at december 26, 2004, we were a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling 530 million gbp (approximately $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see item 8, note 12). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed us dollar interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid us dollars to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive us dollars. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of the changes in value of the future gbp interest and principal receipts that results from changes in the us dollar to gbp exchange rates on an intercompany loan between two of our subsidiaries. at december 26, 2004, we were a party to interest rate swap agreements related to our 6 3 / 8 % fixed rate debt. the interest rate swaps convert $201.2 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2012. we will receive fixed us dollar interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 6 3 / 8 % per annum and pay a rate to our counterparty based on a credit spread plus the three-month libor rate, thereby exchanging a fixed interest obligation for a floating rate obligation. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. we designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the changes in the fair value of $201.2 million fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in the libor swap rates. we monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using two techniques-sensitivity analysis and value-at-risk. our market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the sec, are foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. we use value-at-risk to monitor the foreign exchange and interest rate risk of our cross-currency swaps. the value-at-risk provides an estimate of the level of a one-day loss that may be equaled or exceeded due to changes in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate and interest rate-sensitive financial instruments. the type of value-at-risk model used to estimate the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value is a variance/covariance method. the value-at-risk model assumes normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. there are various modeling techniques that can be used to compute value at risk. the computations used to derive our values take into account various correlations between currency rates and interest rates. the correlations have been determined by observing foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the most recent one-year period. we have excluded anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the value-at-risk calculation, some of which these instruments are intended to hedge. the value-at-risk calculation is a statistical measure of risk exposure based on probabilities and is not intended to represent actual losses in fair value that we may incur. the calculated value-at-risk result does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. it attempts to represent the most likely measure of potential loss that may be experienced 95 times out of 100 due to adverse market events that may occur. actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated by 45 value-at-risk because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments, hedge percentages, timing and other factors. the estimated maximum one-day loss in fair value on our cross-currency swaps, derived using the value-at-risk model, was $10.7 million, $5.9 million and $8.6 million at december 26, 2004, december 28, 2003 and december 29, 2002, respectively. such a hypothetical loss in fair value is a combination of the foreign exchange and interest rate components of the cross currency swap. value changes due to the foreign exchange component would be offset completely by increases in the value of our inter-company loan, the underlying transaction being hedged. the hypothetical loss in fair value attributable to the interest rate component would be deferred until termination or maturity. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include foreign currencies, commodity swaps, interest rate swap and cross-currency swaps. notional principal amounts (usd) fair value positive (negative) maturity (in thousands) december 26, 2004 foreign currency management forwards $ 57,538 $ (1,603 ) 01/05-11/06 cross currency swap 773,800 (237,046 ) 05/12 commodity pricing management swaps 67,134 16,877 02/05-02/06 interest rate pricing management interest rate swap 201,200 9,490 05/12 total $ (212,282 ) december 28, 2003 foreign currency management forwards $ 44,048 $ (1,382 ) 01/04-12/05 cross currency swap 773,800 (138,684 ) 05/12 commodity pricing management swaps 92,468 9,638 02/05-02/06 interest rate pricing management interest rate swap 76,200 6,904 05/12 total $ (123,524 ) maturities of derivative financial instruments held on december 26, 2004, are as follows (in thousands): 2005 2006 2007 and thereafter total $ 13,941 $ 1,334 $ (227,557 ) $ (212,282 ) a sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. 46 the following table presents the results of the sensitivity analysis of our derivative and debt portfolio: as of december 26, 2004 december 28, 2003 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards, swaps $ (6.6 ) $ (5.0 ) interest rate risk: debt, swaps $ (30.7 ) $ (32.4 ) commodity price risk: swaps $ (8.4 ) $ (10.2 ) 47risk factors risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to the molson merger we may not realize the cost savings and other benefits we currently anticipate due to challenges associated with integrating the operations, technologies, sales and other aspects of the businesses of molson and coors. our success will depend in large part on management's success in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of molson and coors. if we fail to integrate the operations of molson and coors or otherwise fail to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger transaction, including the estimated cost savings of approximately $175 million annually by the third year following the merger, our results of operations could be impaired. in addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated operations problems, expenses and liabilities, and diversion of management's attention. if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to the company or favored by other stockholders. pentland and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of the company's class a common and exchangeable stock, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. however, in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve 15 a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we may be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial for molson coors. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 68% of the kaiser business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and income statement charges. on january 13, 2006, we sold a 68% equity interest in kaiser to femsa for $68 million cash, including the assumption by femsa of kaiser-related debt and contingencies. the terms of the agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. it is possible that we will have to make cash outlays to femsa with regard to these indemnities. while the fair values of these indemnity obligations will be recorded on our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future income statement charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our fair value estimates. risks specific to our company our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of three primary products; the failure or weakening of one or more could materially adversely affect our financial results. although we currently have 14 products in our us portfolio, coors light represented more than 72% of our us sales volume for 2005. carling lager is the best-selling brand in the united kingdom and represented approximately 75% of cbl sales volume in 2005. the combination of the molson canadian and coors light brands represented approximately 45% of our canada segment's sales volume for the year ended december 25, 2005. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands would have a disproportionately large adverse impact on our business. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity, which could hinder our ability to adjust to rapid changes in market conditions or to respond to competitive pressures. as of december 25, 2005, we had $850 million in debt primarily related to our acquisition of cbl, and $1.4 billion of debt primarily related to our merger with molson. as a result, we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt. if our financial and operating performance is insufficient to generate sufficient cash flow for all of our activities, our operations could be adversely impacted. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business, of which the loss or inability to obtain materials could negatively affect our ability to produce our products. for our us business, we purchase most of our paperboard and container supplies from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. this packaging is unique and is not produced by any other supplier. additionally, we are contractually obligated to purchase substantially all our can and bottle needs in the united states from our container joint ventures or from our partners in those ventures, ball corporation (rmmc) and owens-brockway glass container, inc. (rmbc). consolidation of the glass bottle industry in north america has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of glass bottle supply disruptions. cbl has only a single source for its can supply (ball). the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. our primary production facilities in europe and the united states are located at single sites, so we could be more vulnerable than our competitors to transportation disruptions, fuel increases and natural disasters. our primary production facility in the united states is in golden, colorado and in europe, our primary production facility is located in burton-on-trent, england. in both countries, our competitors 16 have multiple geographically dispersed breweries and packaging facilities. as a result, we must ship our products greater distances than some of our competitors, making us more vulnerable to fluctuations in costs such as fuel, as well as the impact of any localized natural disasters should they occur. the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements in canada and the united kingdom. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. because we will continue to face intense global competition, operating results may be negatively impacted. the brewing industry is highly competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources. competition in our various markets could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital and other expenditures or lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors has. in all of the markets where molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters and other matters. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals. in addition, changes in tax, environmental or any other laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound and the canadian dollar. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly sales of coors light in canada, and sales of the carling brand in the united kingdom. since our financial statements are presented in us dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into us dollars at current exchange rates. increases and decreases in the value of the us dollar will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. our operations face significant commodity price change and foreign exchange rate exposure which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we will use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including malt, hops, water and packaging materials. the supply and price of these raw materials can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, theft and market demand. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging; our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. we have active hedging programs to address commodity price and foreign exchange rate changes. however, to the extent we fail to adequately manage the foregoing risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates or commodity price risks, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. we could be adversely affected by overall declines in the beer market. industry trends in many global markets indicate increases in consumer preference for wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands in some canada markets, which could result in loss of volume or operating margins. 17 because of our reliance on a limited number of technical service suppliers, we could experience significant disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information technology services provider for our network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration for our us and uk businesses. additionally, we rely on a single provider in canada. if the service providers fail and we are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our information technology systems. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the united kingdom and canada, we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 29% of cbl's total workforce and approximately 67% of molson's total workforce is represented by trade unions. although we believe relations with our employees are good, more stringent labor laws in the united kingdom expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. the us supreme court recently ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. as a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of our products. although it is too early to tell what, if any, changes states may make as a result of this decision, changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact on our business. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks specific to the us segment litigation directed at the alcohol beverage industry may adversely affect our sales volumes, our business and our financial results. molson coors and many other brewers and distilled spirits manufacturers have been sued in several courts regarding advertising practices and underage consumption. the suits allege that each defendant intentionally marketed its products to "children and other underage consumers." in essence, each suit seeks, on behalf of an undefined class of parents and guardians, an injunction and unspecified money damages. we will vigorously defend these lawsuits and it is not possible at this time to estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, in these lawsuits. we are highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell all of our products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets. some of our distributors are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest distributors in their markets. our distributors also sell products that compete with our products. these distributors may give our competitors' products higher priority, thereby reducing sales of our products. in addition, the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected. risks specific to the canada segment we may be required to provide funding to or exercise control over the entity that owns the entertainment business and the montr&eacute;al canadiens pursuant to the guarantees given to its lenders and the nhl. pursuant to certain guarantees given to the lenders and the nhl in support of the entity that owns the majority of the entertainment business and the montr&eacute;al canadiens professional hockey club (purchased from molson in 2001), molson shall provide funding to the entity to meet its obligations to the lenders and the entity's operating expenses and molson shall exercise control over the entity that owns the hockey 18 club at predetermined conditions, subject to nhl approval, if the entity does not meet its obligations under various agreements. an adverse result in a lawsuit brought by miller could have an adverse impact on our business. in december 2005, miller brewing company sued the company and several subsidiaries in a wisconsin federal court. miller seeks to invalidate a licensing agreement allowing molson canada the sole distribution of miller products in canada. miller claims us and canadian antitrust violations, and violations of the agreement's confidentiality provisions. miller also claims that the agreement's purposes have been frustrated as a result of the molson coors merger. if miller were to prevail in this action, it could have an adverse impact on our business. if we are unsuccessful in renegotiating licensing, distribution and related agreements, our business could suffer adverse effects. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies in canada, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements. we are currently in negotiations with two of such companies to enter into new agreements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could adversely impact our business. if regulatory authorities determine that industry understandings regarding the bottle standards are invalid, our business could be adversely impacted. the canadian competition bureau is currently reviewing the validity of industry arrangements regarding industry bottle standards. if the bureau were to determine that the agreement is anticompetitive, we may be required to use multiple bottle types which could significantly increase our production and other related costs. risks specific to the europe segment consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could result in less ability to achieve pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, which could impact cbl's ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers are beginning to purchase directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. this consolidation could impact us adversely. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales and scotland for distribution of our cbl products. we are involved in a joint venture with exel logistics called tradeteam. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for cbl in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our product and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse impact on our operations. we are reliant on a single third party as a supplier for kegs in the united kingdom. we do not own our kegs in the united kingdom; rather we source our kegs from a logistics provider who is responsible for their ownership, upkeep, and to maintain an adequate stock. if this third party provider were to have a business failure, we may be required to purchase a stock of kegs, the estimated cost of which would be $61 million. sales volumes in the united kingdom brewing industry have been moving from on-premise locations to off-premise locations, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. we have noted in recent years that beer volume sales in the uk have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers. a continuation of this trend could adversely impact our profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to govern the strategic management of these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. by policy, we do not enter into any contracts for the purpose of trading or speculation. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are canadian dollar (cdn $), british pound sterling (gbp or &pound;) and japanese yen (yen). derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments, or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (s&amp;p) or a2 (moody's). in some instances our counterparties and we have reciprocal collateralization agreements regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to our counterparties or us exceeds a certain amount. at december 25, 2005, no collateral was posted by our counterparties or us. 57 details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term fixed rate debt, foreign currency forwards, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. see related value-at-risk and sensitivity analysis on page 51. expected maturity date december 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value long-term debt (in thousands): us $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(2) $ $ $ $ $ (300,000 ) $ $ (300,000 ) $ (296,796 ) cdn $200 million, 7.5% fixed rate, due 2011(5) (171,600 ) (171,600 ) (194,801 ) us $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate, due 2012(1), (4) (850,000 ) (850,000 ) (901,026 ) cdn $900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, due 2015(2) (772,201 ) (772,201 ) (765,251 ) foreign currency management (in thousands): forwards 137,126 24,879 162,005 (2,548 ) cross currency swaps(1), (2), (3) 217,800 300,000 773,800 1,291,600 (174,755 ) commodity pricing management: swaps 32,019 10,098 3,322 45,439 9,422 interest rate pricing management interest rate swaps(4), (5) 372,800 372,800 11,195 (1) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling &pound;530 million (approximately us $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see note 13 on page 102). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed us $ interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid us $ to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive us $. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of the changes in value of the future gbp interest and principal receipts that results from changes in the us $ to gbp exchange rates on an intercompany loan between two of our subsidiaries. (2) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see note 13 on page 102), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company's private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates was trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per fas 133 accounting, the loss will be amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by 4.9 basis points compared to the stated coupon on the issue. simultaneously with the us private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire us $300 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our us $300 million for a cdn $355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction are such that the company will pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cdn $355.5 million and will receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the us $300 million amount. there was an exchange of principal at the inception of this transaction and there will be a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction. we have designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the us $ securities. consistent with fas 133 accounting, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange will be recorded through the statement of income and will be offset by a revaluation of the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates will be recorded to other comprehensive income. (3) we are a party to a cross currency swap totaling cdn $255 million (approximately us $218 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2005, the year we entered into the swap). the swap included an initial exchange of principal in 2005 and matures in 2006. the swap also calls for an exchange of fixed cdn $ interest payments for fixed us $ interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid us $ to a counterparty and received cdn $. upon final exchange, we will provide cdn $ to the counterparty and receive us $. the cross currency swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge of the changes in value of the future cdn $ interest and principal receipts that results from changes in the us $ to cdn $ 58 exchange rates on an intercompany loan between two of our subsidiaries. see accounting method discussion in note 18 on page 115 to the accompanying financial statements. (4) we are a party to interest rate swap agreements related to our 6 3 / 8 % fixed rate debt. the interest rate swaps convert $201.2 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2012. we will receive fixed us $ interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 6 3 / 8 % per annum and pay a rate to our counterparty based on a credit spread plus the three-month libor rate, thereby exchanging a fixed interest obligation for a floating rate obligation. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. we designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the changes in the fair value of $201.2 million fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in the libor swap rates. see accounting method discussion in note 18 on page 115 to the accompanying financial statements. (5) the bri joint venture is a party to interest rate swaps, converting cdn $200 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2011. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. these interest rate swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. see accounting method discussion in note 18 on page 115 to the accompanying financial statements. 59risk factors 18 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, 18 and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (a company controlled by eric molson, a related party) ("pentland") and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial for molson coors. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of three primary products in three mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. the combination of the molson canadian and coors light brands represented more than 44% of our canada segment's sales volume in 2007. although we currently have 14 products in our u.s. portfolio, coors light represented more than 66% of our u.s. segment's sales volume for 2007. carling lager is the best-selling brand in the united kingdom and represented more than 78% of our european segment's sales volume in 2007. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, would have a disproportionately large adverse impact on our business. moreover, each of our three major markets is mature, and in each we face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, and our required and/or voluntary contributions made to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceeded the value of the plans' assets. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, financial position, or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. for our u.s. business, we purchase most of our paperboard and container supplies from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. this packaging is unique and is not produced by any other supplier. additionally, we are contractually obligated to purchase substantially all our can and bottle needs in the united states and canada from our container joint ventures or from our partners in those ventures, ball corporation (rmmc) and owens-brockway glass container, inc. (rmbc). consolidation of the glass bottle industry in north america has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of glass bottle supply disruptions. cbl has a single source for its can supply (ball). the inability of any of these 19 suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. our united states and europe production is concentrated among a small number of production facilities, so we could be more vulnerable than our competitors to transportation disruptions, fuel increases and natural disasters. in the united states and europe, respectively, we have primary production facilities in golden, colorado and burton-on-trent, england. in both segments, our competitors are more geographically dispersed. as a result, we ship our products greater distances than some of our competitors, making us more vulnerable to fluctuations in costs such as fuel, as well as the impact of any localized natural disasters impacting these two facilities. during 2007, we brought on-line our shenandoah brewery located in elkton, virginia to reduce risk in the united states segment associated with having a significant single site production facility. consolidation of brewers worldwide may lead to the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements in canada and the united kingdom. beer industry consolidation may increase the competitive environment, straining our current and future relationships with our partners. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. because we will continue to face intense global competition, operating results may be unfavorably impacted. the brewing industry is highly competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors has. in all of the markets in which molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our financial results. we may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $250 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing strategic initiatives. our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives identified during 2007. these initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient across the whole of the business, which is a necessity in our highly competitive industry. these initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting functions. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations, and other matters. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound ("gbp") and the canadian dollar ("cad"). we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in 20 the united kingdom. since our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd at current exchange rates. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. we have active hedging programs to address foreign exchange rate changes. however, to the extent that we fail to adequately manage the foregoing risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. our operations face significant commodity price change exposure which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. we have active hedging programs to address commodity price changes. however, to the extent we fail to adequately manage the foregoing risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, including price risk associated with diesel fuel and aluminum, both of which are at historically high price levels, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. we could be adversely affected by overall declines in the beer market. consumer trends in some global markets indicate increases in consumer preference for wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands, which could result in loss of volume or a deterioration of operating margins. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect to our operations and financial results. it is important we have the ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. the image and reputation of our products may be reduced in the future; concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. restoring the image and reputation of our operations may be costly; operations and financial results may be adversely impacted. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the united kingdom and canada, we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages, or other employee-related issues. approximately 63% of molson's total workforce and approximately 21% of cbl's total workforce is represented by trade unions. although we believe relations with our employees are good, stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in 2006, the u.s. supreme court ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. as a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of our products. changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact on our business. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. 21 because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration additionally, during the first quarter of 2008, we signed a contract with another third-party service provider to outsource a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions. we will begin transitioning work to our service provider in the first half of 2008, and the transition will continue through the end of the year. if one of these service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our information technology systems or other administrative tasks associated with the outsourced functions. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of our 2006 agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. it is possible that we will have to make cash outlays to femsa with regard to these indemnities. while the fair values of these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our fair value estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. risks specific to the canada segment we may be required to provide funding to the entity that owns the montr&eacute;al canadiens hockey club and certain related entertainment businesses pursuant to the guarantees given to the national hockey league ("nhl"). pursuant to certain guarantees given to the nhl as a minority owner of the montr&eacute;al canadiens professional hockey club (majority ownership was sold by molson in 2001) and certain related entertainment businesses, molson may have to provide funding to the club (joint and severally based on our 19.9% ownership) to meet its obligations and its operating expenses if the club cannot meet its obligations under various agreements. risks specific to the u.s. segment the proposed millercoors joint venture transaction is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that could delay or prevent completion of the venture transaction or impose conditions on the venture, which could result in a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the joint venture as well as on our business and financial results. completion of the joint venture transaction is conditioned upon the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino act, and the approval of the transaction by certain other regulatory authorities. if such regulatory clearances are not obtained, we will not be able to complete the transaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, a substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals or the imposition of unfavorable terms or conditions in the approvals could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the joint venture as well as on our business and financial results. 22 we may not realize the cost savings and other benefits we currently anticipate from the millercoors joint venture transaction due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, sales, and other aspects of the operations. the success of the joint venture transaction, if approved, will depend in part on the success of the management of the venture in integrating the operations, technologies, and personnel of mcbc's and sabmiller's respective u.s. operations following the completion of the transaction. the failure of the venture to integrate the two operations or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture transaction, including the estimated annual cost savings described elsewhere in this document, could negatively impact the results of operations of the joint venture. in addition, the overall integration of mcbc and sabmiller's respective u.s. operations is complex and, accordingly, may result in unanticipated operational problems, expenses and liabilities, and diversion of management's attention. the challenges involved in this integration include the following: integrating successfully each company's u.s. operations, technologies, products and services; reducing the costs associated with each company's u.s. operations; coordinating sales, distribution, and marketing efforts to effectively promote the products of the joint venture; preserving distribution, marketing, or other important relationships of the u.s. operations of both mcbc and sabmiller and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to accelerate introduction of new products; assimilating the personnel and business cultures of both companies; and building employee morale and motivation. we are highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell all of our products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets. some of our distributors are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest distributors in their markets. our distributors also sell products that compete with our products. these distributors may give our competitors' products higher priority, thereby reducing sales of our products. in addition, the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected. a failure to successfully upgrade certain information technology systems in early 2008 could cause disruption in our business. during early 2008, we are upgrading certain modules of key information technology systems in the united states and the united kingdom. a failure to successfully accomplish these upgrades could adversely affect our ability to take orders, plan and schedule production, ship products, and bill customers for shipments. risks specific to the europe segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 is accelerating this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, hence these trends could adversely impact our profitability. 23 consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact cbl's ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales, and scotland for distribution of our cbl products. we are a party to a joint venture with dhl ("tradeteam"). tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for cbl in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. in the event that the adverse financial impact of current trends with respect to our u.k. business continue and are worse than we anticipate, we may be required to record impairment charges. these charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to govern the strategic management of these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. by policy, we do not enter into any contracts for the purpose of trading or speculation. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are canadian dollar ("cad"), british pound sterling ("gbp" or "&pound;"). derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (standard &amp; poor's) or a2 (moody's). in some instances our counterparties and we have reciprocal collateralization agreements regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to our counterparties or us exceeds a certain amount. at december 30, 2007, no collateral was posted by our counterparties or us. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term fixed rate debt, foreign 64 currency forwards, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross-currency swaps. see related value-at-risk and sensitivity analysis in the derivatives and other financial instruments section of item 7. expected maturity date december 30, 2007 december 31, 2006 december 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fair value (in thousands) long-term debt: usd $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(1) $ $ $ (300,000 ) $ $ $ $ (300,000 ) $ (301,872 ) $ (293,517 ) cad $200 million, 7.5% fixed rate, due 2011(2) (203,728 ) (203,728 ) (217,398 ) (192,320 ) usd $225 million, 6.375% fixed rate, due 2012(3)(4) (225,000 ) (225,000 ) (236,180 ) (880,626 ) cad $900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, due 2015(1) (916,777 ) (916,777 ) (895,508 ) (762,240 ) us $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013(5) (575,000 ) (575,000 ) (691,265 ) foreign currency management: forwards 264,386 132,862 63,695 460,943 (24,886 ) 7,133 cross currency swaps(1)(3) 300,000 2,116,396 2,416,396 (472,544 ) (268,656 ) commodity pricing management: swaps 135,941 60,741 5,715 202,397 (9,980 ) 7,436 fixed price contracts (956 ) interest rate pricing management: interest rate swaps(2)(4) 101,864 201,200 303,064 9,899 1,913 (1) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company's private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates was trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per fas 133 accounting, the loss will be amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by 4.9 basis points compared to the stated coupon on the issue. simultaneously with the u.s. private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire usd $300.0 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our $300.0 million for a cad $355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction are such that the company will pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cad $355.5 million and will receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the $300.0 million amount. there was an exchange of principal at the inception of this transaction and there will be a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction. we have designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the usd securities. consistent with fas 133 accounting, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange will be recorded through the statement of operations and will be offset by a revaluation of the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates will be recorded to other comprehensive income. (2) the bri joint venture is a party to interest rate swaps, converting cad $100.0 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2011. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. these interest rate swaps qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (3) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling gbp &pound;530.0 million (approximately usd $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed usd interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid usd to a counterparty and received 65 gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive usd. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges. (4) we are a party to interest rate swap agreements related to our 6 3 / 8 % fixed rate debt. the interest rate swaps convert $201.2 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2012. we will receive fixed usd interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 6 3 / 8 % per annum and pay a rate to our counterparty based on a credit spread plus the three-month libor rate, thereby exchanging a fixed interest obligation for a floating rate obligation. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. we designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the changes in the fair value of $201.2 million fixed rate debt attributable to changes in the libor swap rates. see accounting method discussion in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 21 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (a company controlled by eric molson, a related party) ("pentland") and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial for molson coors. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. the combination of the canadian and coors light brands represented more than 53% of our canada segment's sales volume in 2008. similarly, millercoors is dependent on miller lite and coors light in the u.s. carling lager is the best-selling brand in the united kingdom and represented more than 80% of our u.k. segment sales volume in 2008. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, would have a disproportionately large adverse impact on our business. moreover, each of our major markets is mature, and in each we face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, and our required and/or voluntary contributions made to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. the recent significant worldwide decline in equity prices and in the value of other financial investments, together with unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements, has significantly increased our pension liabilities. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials from a small number of suppliers. this packaging (including aluminum cans, aluminum can sheet, glass bottles and paperboard) is unique and is produced by a limited number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local 21 table of contents supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements, or those of millercoors, without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. consolidation of brewers worldwide may lead to the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements in canada and the united kingdom. beer industry consolidation may increase the competitive environment, straining our current and future relationships with our partners. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. because we will continue to face intense global competition, operating results may be unfavorably impacted. the brewing industry is highly competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors has. in all of the markets in which molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our financial results. we may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $250 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing strategic initiatives. our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives identified during 2007. these initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient across the whole of the business, which is a necessity in our highly competitive industry. these initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting functions. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations, and other matters. failure to comply with these laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, the combination of the miller and coors businesses may expose molson coors to regulatory risk arising from the legacy miller portfolio. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound ("gbp") and the canadian dollar ("cad"). we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the united kingdom. since our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd at current exchange rates. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. we have active hedging programs to address foreign exchange rate changes. however, to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. 22 table of contents our operations face significant commodity price change exposure which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. we have active hedging programs to address commodity price changes. however, to the extent we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, including price risk associated with diesel fuel and aluminum, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. we could be adversely affected by overall declines in the beer market. consumer trends in some global markets indicate increases in consumer preference for wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands, which could result in loss of volume or a deterioration of operating margins. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect on our operations and financial results. it is important we have the ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. the image and reputation of our products may be reduced in the future; concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. restoring the image and reputation of our operations may be costly; operations and financial results may be adversely impacted. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the united kingdom, canada and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages, or other employee-related issues. approximately 63%, 29% and 33% of the molson, cbl and millercoors workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. although we believe relations with our employees and the millercoors employees are good, stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in 2006, the u.s. supreme court ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. as a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through millercoors (including our on-u.s. products). changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. additionally, during the first quarter of 2008, we signed a contract with another third-party service provider to outsource a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions. we transitioned much of the work to our service provider during 2008, and will continue that process, specifically for hr related activities during the first half of 2009. if one of these service providers were to fail and we were unable 23 table of contents to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our information technology systems or other administrative tasks associated with the outsourced functions. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. in canada, a significant portion of the purchase price of the 2005 merger between molson and coors was allocated to molson's core brands, which have been assigned an indefinite life. projected declines in sales volume or net price realization, or projected increases in costs to produce these brands, could cause an impairment in their value. further, in the event that the adverse financial impact of current trends with respect to our u.k. business continues and is worse than we anticipate, we may be required to record impairment charges. these charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of our 2006 agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. it is possible that we will have to make cash outlays to femsa with regard to these indemnities. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. risks specific to the canada segment we may be required to provide funding to the entity that owns the montr&eacute;al canadiens hockey club and certain related entertainment businesses pursuant to the guarantees given to the national hockey league ("nhl"). pursuant to certain guarantees given to the nhl as a minority owner of the montr&eacute;al canadiens professional hockey club (majority ownership was sold by molson in 2001) and certain related entertainment businesses, molson may have to provide funding to the club (joint and severally based on our 19.9% ownership) to meet its obligations and its operating expenses if the club cannot meet its obligations under various agreements. we may experience continued discounting in canada. price discounting in quebec, especially in the quebec off-premise channel, negatively impacted our volume performance and margins in our canadian segment in 2008. the continuation, or the increase of such discounting, in quebec or other in provinces, could further adversely impact our business. risks specific to the u.s. segment and millercoors we may not realize cost savings and other benefits from millercoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, sales, and other aspects of the operations. the success of millercoors will depend in part on the success of the management team in integrating the operations, technologies, and personnel of mcbc's and sabmiller's former u.s. operations. the failure of millercoors to 24 table of contents integrate the two operations or otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture transaction, including the estimated $500 million annual cost savings that we previously projected, could unfavorably impact the results of operations of millercoors. in addition, the overall integration of mcbc and sabmiller's respective u.s. operations is a complex undertaking and, accordingly, may result in unanticipated operational problems, expenses and liabilities, and diversion of management's attention. the challenges involved in this integration include the following: integrating successfully the respective miller and coors u.s. operations, technologies, products and services; reducing the costs associated with each company's u.s. operations; coordinating sales, distribution, and marketing efforts to effectively promote the products of millercoors; preserving distribution, marketing, or other important relationships of the u.s. operations of both miller and coors and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; successful integration of the distributorship structure of the two entities, including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the millercoors joint venture; coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to accelerate introduction of new products and other innovations; retaining management, key employees and business partners; assimilating the personnel and business cultures of both companies; and building employee morale and motivation. any adverse financial, operation or other events affecting millercoors could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, our investment in which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller, and hold 42% economic interest in it. millercoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business including brewing, distribution, sales, marketing (including the growth and preservation of brand equities), finance, information technology, human resources, legal, technical operations, safety, environmental compliance, and relationships with governments. as we do not have full control over the activities of millercoors, our results of operations for those ventures are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets. some of these distributors are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest distributors in their markets. in addition, the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, their business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected. consolidation of distributors is expected to occur following the formation of millercoors. the current state of the financial and credit markets may make it more difficult for consolidation among distributors to occur. 25 table of contents risks specific to the united kingdom segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. in the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k. in which some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow in late 2008 and early 2009, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to the company as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact cbl's ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales, and scotland for distribution of our cbl products. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for cbl in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies, and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to govern the strategic management of these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we also use derivatives for other strategic purposes related to our core business. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are the canadian dollar ("cad") and the british pound sterling ("gbp"). derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (standard &amp; poor's) or a2 (moody's). in some instances we have reciprocal collateralization agreements with our counterparties regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to our counterparties or us exceeds a certain amount. at december 28, 2008, no collateral was posted by our counterparties or us. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term fixed rate debt, foreign 68 table of contents currency forwards, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. see related value at risk and sensitivity analysis in the derivatives and other financial instruments section of item 7. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 28, 2008 december 30, 2007 december 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: usd $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(1) $ $ (300.0 ) $ $ $ $ $ (300.0 ) $ (302.3 ) $ (301.9 ) cad $200 million, 7.5% fixed rate, due 2011(2) (163.7 ) (163.7 ) (169.1 ) (217.4 ) usd $45 million, 6.375% fixed rate, due 2012(3) (44.6 ) (44.6 ) (46.8 ) (236.2 ) cad $900 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2015(1) (736.5 ) (736.5 ) (669.6 ) (895.5 ) usd $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013(4) (575.0 ) (575.0 ) (629.7 ) (691.3 ) usd $27 million, 7.2% fixed rate, due 2013 (27.3 ) foreign currency management: forwards 190.8 110.1 18.6 319.5 52.1 (24.9 ) cross currency swaps(1)(3) 300.0 1,545.4 1,845.4 (197.3 ) (472.5 ) commodity pricing management: swaps 5.1 1.1 6.2 (1.6 ) (10.0 ) interest rate pricing management: interest rate swaps(2) 81.8 81.8 7.2 9.9 equity pricing management: cash settled total return swap 339.5 339.5 (1.4 ) (1) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see part ii financial statements and supplementary data, item 8 note 13 "debt and credit arrangements" to the consolidated financial statements), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company's private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates was trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per fas 133 accounting, the loss will be amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by 4.9 basis points compared to the stated coupon on the issue. simultaneously with the u.s. private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire usd $300.0 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our $300.0 million for a cad $355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction are such that the company will pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cad $355.5 million and will receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the $300.0 million amount. there was an exchange of principal at the inception of this transaction and there will be a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction. we have designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the usd securities. consistent with fas 133 accounting, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange will be recorded through the statement of operations and will be offset by a revaluation of the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates will be recorded to other comprehensive income. (2) the bri joint venture is a party to interest rate swaps, converting cad $100.0 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2011. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. these interest rate swaps qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (3) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling gbp &pound;530.0 million (approximately usd $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see part ii financial statements and supplementary data, item 8 note 18 "derivative instruments" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed usd interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid usd to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive usd. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges. (4) on june 15, 2007, mcbc issued $575 million of 2.5% convertible senior notes in a public offering discussed further in part ii financial statements and supplementary data, item 8 note 13 "debt and credit arrangements" to the consolidated financial statements. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (a company controlled by eric molson, a related party) ("pentland") and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial for molson coors. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. our canadian and coors light brands in canada, miller lite and coors light brands in the u.s., and carling brand in the u.k. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2009. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, would have a material adverse effect on our business. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source, could have a material adverse effect on our business. consolidation of brewers worldwide may lead to the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, 16 table of contents distribution or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors. in all of the markets in which molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our financial results. moreover, each of our major markets is mature, and in each we face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. we may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $100 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing strategic initiatives. our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives, called rfgii, identified during 2009. these initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient across the business, which is a necessity in our highly competitive industry. these initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting functions. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation and political debate. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol have been increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound ("gbp") and the canadian dollar ("cad"). we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the united kingdom. since our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd at current exchange rates. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and 17 table of contents commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. it is important we have the ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect on our operations and financial results. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the united kingdom, canada and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages, or other employee-related issues. approximately 63%, 26% and 36% of the mcc, mcbc-uk and millercoors workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. although we believe relations with our employees and the millercoors employees are good, stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in 2006, the u.s. supreme court ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. as a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. this includes examples such as the returnable bottle system in canada, as well as warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. if one of these service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. potential resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns 18 table of contents around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. as a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there are also water availability risks. climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. despite a 2009 brazilian tax amnesty in which femsa is participating, we cannot predict the outcomes of remaining administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience continued discounting in canada. the continuation, or the increase of such discounting, in qu&eacute;bec or other in provinces, could adversely impact our business. risks specific to the u.s. segment and millercoors we may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from millercoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, and other aspects of the operations. millercoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating the respective miller and coors u.s. operations, technologies, and services, as well as their respective distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the millercoors joint venture. the failure of millercoors to successfully integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, our investment in which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller, and hold 42% economic interest in it. millercoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of millercoors. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. 19 table of contents additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, their business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected. consolidation of distributors is expected to occur following the formation of millercoors. risks specific to the united kingdom segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. in the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k. in which some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow in late 2008 and 2009, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to the company as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact mcbc-uk's ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales, and scotland for distribution of our mcbc-uk products. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for mcbc-uk in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk details of market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term debt, foreign currency swaps, commodity swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 26, 2009 december 28, 2008 december 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: usd $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(1) $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 $ (312.6 ) $ (302.3 ) cad $200 million, 7.5% fixed rate, due 2011(2) (169.1 ) usd $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate, due 2012(3) 44.6 44.6 (51.5 ) (46.8 ) cad $900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, due 2015(1) 857.2 857.2 (906.6 ) (669.6 ) usd $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013(4) 575.0 575.0 (642.9 ) (629.7 ) foreign currency management: forwards 198.7 112.6 28.0 339.3 (8.6 ) 52.1 cross currency swaps(1)(3) 300.0 1,692.4 1,992.4 (413.0 ) (197.3 ) commodity pricing management: swaps 2.5 2.5 (0.8 ) (1.6 ) interest rate pricing management: forward starting interest rate swaps 190.5 190.5 6.3 interest rate swaps(2) 7.2 equity pricing management: aud $496.5 million total return swap 439.0 439.0 (1.8 ) (1.4 ) our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are the canadian dollar ("cad") and the british pound sterling ("gbp"). (1) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 14 "debt" to the consolidated financial statements), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company's private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates was trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per guidance pertaining to derivatives and hedging, the loss is being amortized over 59 table of contents the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by 4.9 basis points compared to the stated coupon on the issue. simultaneously with the u.s. private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire usd $300 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our $300 million for a cad $355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction are such that the company will pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cad $355.5 million and will receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the $300 million amount. there was an exchange of principal at the inception of this transaction and there will be a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction. we have designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the usd securities. consistent with guidance pertaining to derivatives and hedging, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange are being recorded through the statement of operations and are being offset by a revaluation of the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates are being recorded to other comprehensive income. (2) the bri joint venture is a party to interest rate swaps, converting cad $100.0 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2011. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. these interest rate swaps qualify for hedge accounting treatment. we deconsolidated bri from our financial statements in the first quarter of 2009. (3) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling gbp &pound;530.0 million (approximately usd $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 19 "derivative instruments and hedging activities" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed usd interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid usd to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive usd. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges. (4) on june 15, 2007, mcbc issued $575 million of 2.5% convertible senior notes in a public offering discussed further in part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 14 "debt" to the consolidated financial statements. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. moreover, each of our major markets is mature. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. our molson canadian and coors light brands in canada, miller lite and coors light brands in the u.s., and carling brand in the u.k. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2010. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (a company controlled by the molson family, related parties) ("pentland") and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these 15 table of contents two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of one or more reporting segments. we may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $150 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing cost savings initiatives. our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives, our second resources for growth ("rfg2"), identified during 2009. these initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient across the business, which is a necessity in our highly competitive industry. these initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting functions. any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation and 16 table of contents political debate. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound ("gbp") and the canadian dollar ("cad"). we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the u.k. since our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. it is important we have the ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect on our business and financial results. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in canada, the united kingdom, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages, or other employee-related issues. approximately 62%, 23% and 36% of our canadian, u.k., and millercoors' workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. we believe relations with our employees and those of millercoors are good. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. any labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors and, consequently, mcbc. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint 17 table of contents venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. examples include the returnable bottle system in canada, as well as warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. if one of these service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. potential resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. as a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there are also water availability risks. climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience continued discounting in canada. the continuation, or the increase of such discounting, in ontario, qu&eacute;bec, alberta or other provinces, could adversely impact our business. risks specific to the u.s. segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller, and hold a 42% economic 18 table of contents interest. millercoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of millercoors. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. we may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from millercoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, and other aspects of the operations. millercoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating ours and sabmiller's u.s. operations, technologies, and services, as well as the distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the millercoors joint venture. the failure of millercoors to successfully integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, their business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the united kingdom segment a failure to successfully implement sap, as our integrated accounting/ financial reporting and logistics management systems (including those within our tradeteam partner) in our u.k. segment in mid 2011 could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our customer order and production planning processes, as well as to report results in a timely and accurate manner. in mid 2011, we plan to implement sap and new related processes for all our general ledger accounting and transaction activities, as well our logistics and production planning processes. some companies have experienced startup difficulties with similar projects. if our contingency plans fail, we face certain risks when the system is implemented, including the ability to operate cost-effectively, deliver on customer orders, collect cash from sales and report the results of operations. additionally, we may not achieve the benefits we expect from these re-engineered processes. sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact our ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. 19 table of contents in the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to the company as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales, and scotland for distribution of our u.k. products. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for us in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk details of market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term debt, foreign currency swaps, commodity swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps, and cross currency swaps. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 25, 2010 december 26, 2009 december 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(1) (312.6 ) $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate notes, due 2012(2) 44.6 44.6 (47.9 ) (51.5 ) cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015(1) 892.6 892.6 (955.7 ) (906.6 ) $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013(4) 575.0 575.0 (647.2 ) (642.9 ) cad 500 million, 3.95% fixed rate series a notes, due 2017(5) 495.9 495.9 (486.8 ) foreign currency management: forwards 236.7 146.0 57.3 440.0 (16.2 ) (8.6 ) cross currency swaps(1)(2)(3) 1,637.1 1,637.1 (412.2 ) (413.0 ) commodity pricing management: swaps (notional in gj) 1.6 0.6 2.2 (2.1 ) (0.8 ) interest rate pricing management: forward starting interest rate swaps(5) 6.3 equity pricing management: option contracts (notional in fgl.asx shares) 7.6 7.6 2.9 aud 42.6 million total return swap 42.8 42.8 1.2 (1.8 ) our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are the canadian dollar ("cad") and the british pound sterling ("gbp"). (1) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 13 "debt" of the notes), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company's private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates were trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per authoritative accounting guidance pertaining to derivatives and hedging, the loss is being amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by .0005% compared to the stated coupon on the issue. simultaneously with the u.s. private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire $300 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our $300 million for a cad 355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction were such that the company would pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cad 355.5 million and would receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the $300 million amount. there was an exchange of principle at the inception of this transaction and there was a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction in september of 2010. we designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the usd securities. consistent with authoritative accounting guidance pertaining to derivatives and hedging, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange were recorded through the statement of operations and were offset by a revaluation of 64 table of contents the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates were recorded to other comprehensive income. in september of 2010, our $300 million/cad 355.5 million cross currency swap matured and was cash settled in accordance with the terms of the contract. (2) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling gbp 530 million (approximately $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3 / 8 % notes due in 2012 (see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 "derivatives instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed usd interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid usd to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive usd. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of the changes in value of the future gbp interest and principal receipts. (3) we are a party to a cross currency swap totaling gbp 530 million (approximately cad 1.2 billion at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2005, the year we entered into the swap.) the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2005 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date in 2012. the swap also calls for an exchange of fixed cad interest payments for fixed gbp interest receipts. the cross currency swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge of the changes in value of the future cad interest and principal receipts that results from changes in the gbp to cad exchange rates on an intercompany loan between two of our subsidiaries. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 "derivatives instruments and hedging activities" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. (4) on june 15, 2007, mcbc issued $575 million of 2.5% convertible senior notes in a public offering discussed in part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 13 "debt" of the notes. (5) prior to issuing the bonds on october 6, 2010 (see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 13 "debt" of the notes), we entered into a forward starting interest rate swap transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the forward starting interest rate swap transaction effectively established, in advance, an average fixed rate of 3.3% for the benchmark canadian yield on the cad 200 million we hedged. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates were trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company's interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of cad 7.9 million on the forward starting interest rate swap transaction. per authoritative accounting guidance pertaining to derivatives and hedging, the loss is being amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company's effective cost of borrowing by approximately .0023% compared to the stated coupon on the issue. 65 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 17 risk factors related to the europe segment for further discussion. aluminum cans approximately 36% of our u.k. products were packaged in cans in 2006. all of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with ball. glass bottles approximately 5% of our u.k. products are packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. other packaging the remaining 3% of our u.k. sales are shipped in bulk tanker for other brewers to package. crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from concentrated sources unique to each product. cbl does not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the foreseeable future. seasonality of business in the u.k., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holiday periods, weather and by certain major televised sporting events (such as the world cup soccer tournament in the summer of 2006). peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the christmas and new year periods. the christmas/new year holiday peak is most pronounced in the off-premise channel. consequently, our largest quarters by volume are the third and fourth quarters, and the smallest are the first and second. competitive conditions 2006 u.k. beer industry overview beer consumption in the united kingdom declined by an average of 0.9% per annum between 1980 and 2000. total trade beer market volume declined by 1.2% in 2006. this was the third consecutive year of 12 decline and reverses the relatively stable trend seen during 2000 to 2003. the longer-term decline has been mainly attributable to the on-premise channel, where volumes are now approximately 44% lower than in 1980. over the same period, off-premise volume has increased by approximately 210%. this trend is expected to continue and has been caused by a number of factors, including changes in consumers lifestyles and an increasing price difference between beer prices in the on-premise (higher prices) and off-premise (lower prices) channels. both trends continued in 2006 with off-premise industry market growth of 3.2% and a decline in the on-premise market of 4.3%. there has also been a steady trend away from ales and towards lager, driven predominantly by the leading lager brands. in 1980, lagers accounted for 31% of beer sales, and in 2006 lagers accounted for almost 75% of u.k. beer sales. while lager volume has been growing, ales, including stouts, have declined during this period, and this trend has accelerated in the last few years. the leading beer brands are generally growing at a faster rate than the market. the top 10 brands now represent approximately 66% of the total market, compared to only 34% in 1995. our competitive position our beers and flavored alcohol beverages compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits and ciders. with the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. our strength in the growing lager category with carling, grolsch, coors fine light beer and c2 positions us well to take advantage of the continuing trend toward lagers. our portfolio has been strengthened by the introduction of a range of imported and speciality beer brands, such as sol, zatec, palm and kasteel cru. our principal competitors are scottish &amp; newcastle u.k. ltd., inbev u.k. ltd. and carlsberg u.k. ltd. we are the u.k. second-largest brewer, with a market share of approximately 21% (excluding factored brands sales), based on ac nielsen information. this compares to scottish &amp; newcastle u.k. ltd. share of approximately 24%, inbev u.k. ltd. share of approximately 19% and carlsberg u.k. ltd. share of approximately 12%. in 2006 cbl achieved a small increase in its share of the u.k. beer market and two of our three core brands carling and coors fine light beer increased their product category share in 2006. global intellectual property we own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. we also hold several patents on innovative processes related to product formula, can making, can decorating and certain other technical operations. these patents have expiration dates through 2021. we are not reliant on royalty or other revenue from third parties for our financial success. therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business. inflation inflation is typically a factor in the segments in which we operate, although we periodically experience inflationary trends in specific areas, such as fuel costs, which were significantly higher in 2006 when compared to prior years. inflation in diesel fuel costs impacts the u.s. segment most significantly due to the geographic size of the u.s. market and the concentration of production at fewer facilities. the u.s. segment is also the most exposed to inflation in aluminum prices, since it packages the majority of its product in aluminum cans. 13 regulation canada in canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, sale and pricing of beer, and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. in 2006, canada excise taxes totaled $552.5 million or $66.71 per barrel sold. in addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the united states, affect the canadian beer industry. united states in the united states, the beer business is regulated by federal, state and local governments. these regulations govern many parts of our operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales and environmental issues. to operate our facilities, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the u.s. treasury department; alcohol and tobacco tax and trade bureau; the u.s. department of agriculture; the u.s. food and drug administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies as well as state and federal environmental agencies. governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. federal excise taxes on malt beverages are currently $18 per barrel. state excise taxes also are levied at rates that ranged in 2006 from a high of $32.10 per barrel in alaska to a low of $0.60 per barrel in wyoming. in 2006, u.s. excise taxes totaled $417.6 million or $17.79 per barrel sold. europe in the united kingdom, regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. to operate our breweries and carry on business in the united kingdom, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from local licensing justices and governmental bodies, including her majesty revenue &amp; customs (hmrc); the office of fair trading; the data protection commissioner and the environment agency. in 2007, a smoking ban in public places will take effect across the remainder of great britain. the ban will come into force on april 2, 2007 in wales, april 30, 2007 in northern ireland and july 1, 2007 in england and is expected to have a significant unfavorable volume impact in the on-premise channel in the short-term but potentially increase volume in the off-premise market as consumers adjust their consumption patterns to the new environment. a ban already exists in scotland and republic of ireland and in these geographies the experience was as we have outlined in our expectation for wales, northern ireland and england. the u.k. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. in 2006, we incurred approximately $1.1 billion in excise taxes on gross revenues of approximately $2.5 billion, or approximately $104.58 per barrel. 14 environmental matters canada our canadian brewing operations are subject to provincial environmental regulations and local permit requirements. each of our canadian breweries, other than the st. john brewery, has water treatment facilities to pre-treat waste water before it goes to the respective local governmental facility for final treatment. we have environmental programs in canada including organization, monitoring and verification, regulatory compliance, reporting, education and training, and corrective action. molson sold a chemical specialties business in 1996. the company is responsible for certain aspects of environmental remediation, undertaken or planned, at the business sites. we have established provisions for the costs of these remediation programs. united states we are one of a number of entities named by the environmental protection agency (epa) as a potentially responsible party (prp) at the lowry superfund site. this landfill is owned by the city and county of denver (denver) and is managed by waste management of colorado, inc. (waste management). in 1990, we recorded a pretax charge of $30 million, a portion of which was put into a trust in 1993 as part of a settlement with denver and waste management regarding then outstanding litigation. our settlement was based on an assumed remediation cost of $120 million (in 1992 adjusted dollars). the settlement requires us to pay a portion of future costs in excess of that amount. considering uncertainties at the site, including what additional remedial actions may be required by the epa, new technologies, and what costs are included in the determination of when the $120 million threshold is reached, the estimate of our liability may change as facts further develop. we cannot predict the amount or timing of any such change, but additional accruals could be required in the future. we are aware of groundwater contamination at some of our properties in colorado resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby activities. there may also be other contamination of which we are currently unaware. from time to time, we have been notified that we are or may be a prp under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act or similar state laws for the cleanup of other sites where hazardous substances have allegedly been released into the environment. while we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows or our financial or competitive position. we believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. europe we are subject to the requirements of government and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. compliance with these laws and regulations did not materially affect our 2006 capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate that they will do so in 2007. employees and employee relations canada molson has approximately 3,000 full-time employees in canada. approximately 67% of this total workforce is represented by trade unions. workplace change initiatives are continuing and as a result, joint 15 union and management steering committees established in most breweries are focusing on customer service, quality, continuous improvement, employee training and a growing degree of employee involvement in all areas of brewery operations. the agreement governing our relationship with 100 employees at the edmonton brewery is set to expire in 2007. we believe that relations with our canada employees are good. united states we have approximately 3,800 employees in our u.s. segment. less than 1% of our u.s. work force is represented by unions. we believe that relations with our u.s. employees are good. europe we have approximately 2,750 employees in our europe segment. approximately 23% of this total workforce is represented by trade unions, primarily at our burton-on-trent and tadcaster breweries. the agreements do not have expiration dates and negotiations are conducted annually. we believe that relations with our europe employees are good. (d) financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales see the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the united states, and all foreign countries. (e) available information our internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. through a direct link to our reports at the sec website at http://www.sec.gov, we make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. cautionary statement pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 this document and the documents incorporated in this document by reference contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. all statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this document and the materials accompanying this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. frequently, but not always, forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the future tense and by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, may, could, would, projects, continues, estimates, or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements include declarations regarding our plans, intentions, beliefs or current expectations. 16 among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements are the risks and uncertainties described under risk factors and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the sec. forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date of this document and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to the company or favored by other stockholders. pentland and the coors trust, which together control more than two-thirds of the company class a common and exchangeable stock, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. however, in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either pentland or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we may be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial for molson coors. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of three primary products in three mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more could materially adversely affect our financial results. although we currently have 14 products in our u.s. portfolio, coors light represented more than 71% of our u.s. segment sales volume for 2006. carling lager is the best-selling brand in the united kingdom and represented more than 77% of our european segment sales volume in 2006. the combination of the molson canadian and coors light brands represented more than 42% of our canada segment sales volume in 2006. consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, would have a disproportionately large adverse impact on our business. moreover, each of our three major markets is mature, and we face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. we have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our stockholders equity, which could hinder our ability to adjust to rapid changes in market conditions or to respond to competitive pressures. as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately $850 million in debt primarily related to our acquisition of cbl and $1.1 billion of debt primarily related to our merger with molson. as a result, we must use a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt. if our financial and operating performance does not generate sufficient cash flow for all of our activities, our operations could be adversely impacted. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. for our u.s. business, we purchase most of our paperboard and container supplies from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. this packaging is unique and is not produced by any other supplier. additionally, we are 17 contractually obligated to purchase substantially all our can and bottle needs in the united states and canada from our container joint ventures or from our partners in those ventures, ball corporation (rmmc) and owens-brockway glass container, inc. (rmbc). consolidation of the glass bottle industry in north america has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of glass bottle supply disruptions. cbl has a single source for its can supply (ball). the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. our primary production facilities in europe and the united states are located at single sites, so we could be more vulnerable than our competitors to transportation disruptions, fuel increases and natural disasters. our primary production facility in the united states is in golden, colorado, and in europe, our primary production facility is located in burton-on-trent, england. in both segments, our competitors have multiple geographically dispersed breweries and packaging facilities. as a result, we must ship our products greater distances than some of our competitors, making us more vulnerable to fluctuations in costs such as fuel, as well as the impact of any localized natural disasters should they occur. the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements in canada and the united kingdom. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. because we will continue to face intense global competition, operating results may be unfavorably impacted. the brewing industry is highly competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources. competition in our various markets could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital and other expenditures or lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than molson coors has. in all of the markets where molson coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our financial results. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals. in addition, changes in tax, environmental or any other laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound and the canadian dollar. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the united kingdom. since our financial statements are presented in usd, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd at current exchange rates. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. our operations face significant commodity price change and foreign exchange rate exposure which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum and paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel 18 fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geo-political events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. we have active hedging programs to address commodity price and foreign exchange rate changes. however, to the extent we fail to adequately manage the foregoing risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates or commodity price risks, including price risk associated with diesel fuel and aluminum, both of which are at historically high price levels, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. we could be adversely affected by overall declines in the beer market. consumer trends in some global markets indicate increases in consumer preference for wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands in some canadian markets, which could result in loss of volume or a deterioration of operating margins. because of our reliance on a single information technology service supplier, we could experience significant disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information technology services provider worldwide for our network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. if that service provider fails and we are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our information technology systems. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the united kingdom and canada, we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. approximately 67% of molson total workforce and approximately 23% of cbl total workforce is represented by trade unions. although we believe relations with our employees are good, stringent labor laws in the united kingdom expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in 2006, the u.s. supreme court ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. as a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of our products. changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact on our business. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the kaiser business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. on january 13, 2006, we agreed to sell a 68% equity interest in kaiser to femsa for $68 million cash, including the assumption by femsa of kaiser-related debt and certain contingencies. in november 2006, we divested our remaining 15% ownership interest in kaiser and received $15.7 million, resulting in an increase of femsa purchased ownership of kaiser to 83%. the terms of our 2006 agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. it is possible that we will have to make cash outlays to femsa with regard to these indemnities. while the fair values of these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our fair value estimates or change in assessment of probability of loss on these items. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. 19 risks specific to the canada segment we may be required to provide funding to the entity that owns the montr al canadiens hockey club and the related entertainment business pursuant to the guarantees given to the national hockey league (nhl). pursuant to certain guarantees given to the nhl as a minority owner of the entertainment business and the montr al canadiens professional hockey club (majority ownership sold by molson in 2001), molson may have to provide funding to the club (joint and severally based on our 19.9% ownership) to meet its obligations and its operating expenses if the club cannot meet its obligations under various agreements. an adverse result in a lawsuit brought by miller could have an adverse impact on our business. in december 2005, miller brewing company sued the company and several subsidiaries in a wisconsin federal court. miller seeks to invalidate a licensing agreement allowing molson canada the sole distribution of miller products in canada. miller claims u.s. and canadian antitrust violations and violations of the agreement confidentiality provisions. miller also claims that the agreement purposes have been frustrated as a result of the molson coors merger. if miller were to prevail in this action, it could have an adverse impact on our business, and we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of the $112.0 million carrying value of our intangible asset associated with the miller arrangements. if we are unsuccessful in maintaining licensing, distribution and related agreements, our business could suffer adverse effects. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies in canada, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements could adversely impact our business. if the maritime provinces refuse to recognize our new brewery in moncton, new brunswick, as a local brewer, we will not be able to use that facility as planned. we are completing a brewery in moncton, new brunswick. we decided to build it on the basis of assurances from canada maritime provinces (which include new brunswick and nova scotia) that the facility would qualify as a local brewer, under the maritime accord so that beer shipped to other maritime provinces would be subject to much lower handling fees than beer shipped from elsewhere in canada. there is risk that certain maritime provinces will not honor their previous assurances. if so, our return on investment would be substantially lower than planned, and we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of the $25.2 million spent to construct the brewery. risks specific to the u.s. segment litigation directed at the alcohol beverage industry may adversely affect our sales volumes, our business and our financial results. molson coors and other brewers and distilled spirits manufacturers have been sued in several courts regarding advertising practices and underage consumption. the suits allege that each defendant intentionally marketed its products to children and other underage consumers. in essence, each suit seeks, on behalf of an undefined class of parents and guardians, an injunction and unspecified money damages. we will vigorously defend these lawsuits, several of which have been dismissed and are now on appeal. it is not possible at this time to estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, that may result from these lawsuits. we are highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products. we sell all of our products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets. some of our distributors are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest distributors in their markets. our distributors also sell products that compete with our products. these distributors may give our competitors products higher priority, thereby reducing sales of our products. in addition, the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected. 20 risks specific to the europe segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. we have noted in recent years that beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. the progression to a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. anticipated to be effective in 2007 is likely to accelerate this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, hence these trends could adversely impact our profitability. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could result in less ability to achieve favorable pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact cbl ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could impact us adversely. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider in england, wales and scotland for distribution of our cbl products. we are a party to a joint venture with dhl called tradeteam. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for cbl in england, wales and scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. we are reliant on a single third party as a supplier for kegs in the united kingdom. our cbl business uses kegs managed by a logistics provider who is responsible for providing an adequate stock of kegs as well as their upkeep. due to greater than anticipated keg losses as well as reduced fill fees (attributable to reduced overall volume), the logistics provider has encountered financial difficulty. as a result of action taken by the logistics provider's lending institution, related to perceived financial difficulties of the borrower, the logistics provider has been forced into administration (restructuring proceedings) and the bank, on february 20, 2007, exercised its option to put the keg population to cbl. as a result, we expect to purchase the existing keg population from the logistics provider's lender at fair value pursuant to the terms of the agreement between cbl and the logistics provider lender. we estimate that this potential capital expenditure, which may be financed over a period of time in excess of one year, could amount to approximately $70 million to $100 million, which is not included in the 2007 capital expenditures plan. as a result of this capital requirement, we may reduce other elements of our 2007 capital expenditures plan, or offset risk posed by the potential keg purchase through increased cash generation efforts. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. in the event that the adverse financial impact of current trends with respect to our u.k. business continue and including the potential impact of an expected smoking ban in on-premise locations across the whole of the u.k. in 2007 are worse than we anticipate, we may be required to record impairment charges. this could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currencies and the prices of production and packaging materials. we have established policies and procedures to govern the strategic management of these exposures through a variety of financial instruments. by policy, we do not enter into any contracts for the purpose of trading or speculation. our objective in managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and production and packaging materials prices is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows affected by potential changes in underlying rates and prices. to achieve this objective, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, the values of which change in the opposite direction of the anticipated cash flows. we do not hedge the value of net investments in foreign-currency-denominated operations or translated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our primary foreign currency exposures are canadian dollar (cad), british pound sterling (gbp or ) and japanese yen (jpy). derivatives are either exchange-traded instruments or over-the-counter agreements entered into with highly rated financial institutions. no losses on over-the-counter agreements due to counterparty credit issues are anticipated. all over-the-counter agreements are entered into with counterparties rated no lower than a (standard &amp; poor s) or a2 (moody s). in some instances our counterparties and we have reciprocal collateralization agreements regarding fair value positions in excess of certain thresholds. these agreements call for the posting of collateral in the form of cash, treasury securities or letters of credit if a fair value loss position to our counterparties or us exceeds a certain amount. at december 31, 2006, no collateral was posted by our counterparties or us. details of all other market-sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, including their fair values, are included in the table below. these instruments include long-term fixed rate debt, foreign currency forwards, commodity swaps, interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. see related value-at-risk and sensitivity analysis in the derivatives and other financial instruments section of item 7. expected maturity date december 31, 2006 december 25, 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value fair value (in thousands) long-term debt: usd $300 million, 4.85% fixed rate, due 2010(1) $ $ $ $ (300,000 ) $ $ $ (300,000 ) $ (293,517 ) $ (296,796 ) cad $200 million, 7.5% fixed rate, due 2011(2) (171,541 ) (171,541 ) (192,320 ) (194,801 ) usd $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate, due 2012(3)(4) (850,000 ) (850,000 ) (880,626 ) (901,026 ) cad $900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, due 2015(1) (771,936 ) (771,936 ) (762,240 ) (765,251 ) foreign currency management: forwards 147,684 57,783 14,989 220,456 7,133 (2,548 ) cross currency swaps(1)(3)(5) 73,487 300,000 1,038,217 1,411,704 (268,656 ) (174,755 ) commodity pricing management: swaps 46,092 3,631 49,723 7,436 9,422 fixed price contracts 4,125 4,125 (956 ) interest rate pricing management: interest rate swaps(2)(4) 85,771 201,200 286,971 1,913 11,195 (1) prior to issuing the bonds on september 22, 2005 (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8), we entered into a bond forward transaction for a portion of the canadian offering. the bond forward transaction effectively established, in advance, the yield of the government of canada bond rates over which the company private placement was priced. at the time of the private placement offering and pricing, the government of canada bond rates was trading at a yield lower than that locked in with the company interest rate lock. this resulted in a loss of $4.0 million on the bond forward transaction. per fas 133 accounting, the loss will be amortized over the life of the canadian issued private placement and will serve to increase the company effective cost of borrowing by 4.9 basis points compared to the stated coupon on the issue. 63 simultaneouslywith the u.s. private placement we entered into a cross currency swap transaction for the entire usd $300 million issue amount and for the same maturity. in this transaction we exchanged our $300 million for a cad $355.5 million obligation with a third party. the terms of the transaction are such that the company will pay interest at a rate of 4.28% to the third party on the amount of cad $355.5 million and will receive interest at a rate of 4.85% on the $300 million amount. there was an exchange of principal at the inception of this transaction and there will be a subsequent exchange of principal at the termination of the transaction. we have designated this transaction as a hedge of the variability of the cash flows associated with the payment of interest and principal on the usd securities. consistent with fas 133 accounting, all changes in the value of the transaction due to foreign exchange will be recorded through the statement of operations and will be offset by a revaluation of the associated debt instrument. changes in the value of the transaction due to interest rates will be recorded to other comprehensive income. (2) the bri joint venture is a party to interest rate swaps, converting cad $100 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2011. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. these interest rate swaps qualify for hedge accounting treatment. (3) we are a party to certain cross currency swaps totaling gbp 530 million (approximately usd $774 million at prevailing foreign currency exchange rates in 2002, the year we entered into the swaps). the swaps included an initial exchange of principal in 2002 and will require final principal exchange on the settlement date of our 6 3/8% notes due in 2012 (see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8). the swaps also call for an exchange of fixed gbp interest payments for fixed usd interest receipts. at the initial principal exchange, we paid usd to a counterparty and received gbp. upon final exchange, we will provide gbp to the counterparty and receive usd. the cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges. (4) we are a party to interest rate swap agreements related to our 6 3/8% fixed rate debt. the interest rate swaps convert $201.2 million notional amount from fixed rates to floating rates and mature in 2012. we will receive fixed usd interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 6 3/8% per annum and pay a rate to our counterparty based on a credit spread plus the three-month libor rate, thereby exchanging a fixed interest obligation for a floating rate obligation. there was no exchange of principal at the inception of the swaps. we designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the changes in the fair value of $201.2 million fixed rate debt attributable to changes in the libor swap rates. see accounting method discussion in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 12 risk factors the reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. the most important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following: risks specific to our company competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. in most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than us, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. in all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies by these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. moreover, each of our major markets is mature. our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results. our molson canadian and coors light brands in canada, miller lite and coors light brands in the u.s., and carling brand in the u.k. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2011 . consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if pentland and the coors trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. pentland securities (1981) inc. (the "pentland trust") (a company controlled by the molson family and related parties) and the adolph coors, jr. trust (the "coors trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our class a common stock and the class a exchangeable shares that they own. in the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the class a common stock and class a exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. there is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. therefore, if either the pentland trust or the coors trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. thus it is possible that the company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations. our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global 12 table of contents equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. while we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of operations. we rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. the inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. we purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. we manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution or other arrangements. the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of one or more reporting segments. changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations, and other matters. these laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. to the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the british pound ("gbp") and the canadian dollar ("cad"). we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in canada and in the u.k. because our financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars ("usd"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into usd. increases and decreases in the value of the usd will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. we use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. we also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. the supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. to the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. the success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. it is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect on our business and financial results. due to a high concentration of unionized workers in canada, the united kingdom, and at millercoors in the u.s., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages, or other employee-related issues. approximately 61%, 36% and 25% of our canadian, millercoors, and u.k. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. stringent labor laws in the u.k. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. any labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 13 table of contents changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business. in our u.s. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through millercoors (including our non-u.s. products). that system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. to the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on millercoors and, consequently, mcbc. further, in certain canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. if provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business. our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. an example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. we rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. we also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. if one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. we may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. in connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. these assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. potential resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business. there is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. while warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. as a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there are also water availability risks. climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. the competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. if an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. risks associated with operating our joint ventures may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into several joint ventures, including our millercoors joint venture in the united states and puerto rico with sabmiller. we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital 14 table of contents investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. in addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. the loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. in addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. risks specific to the canada segment we may experience continued price discounting in canada. the continuation, or the increase of price discounting, in ontario, qu bec, alberta or other provinces, could adversely impact our business. in the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. along with abi and other brewers in canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents the significant majority of the more than 50% bottle volume sales in canada. changes to the industry standard bottle agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. if we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets. risks specific to the united states segment and millercoors we do not fully control the operations and administration of millercoors, which represents our interests in the u.s. beer business. we jointly control millercoors with sabmiller, and hold a 42% economic interest. millercoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of millercoors. our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of millercoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with sabmiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect sabmiller. additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to millercoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. we may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from millercoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, and other aspects of the operations. the millercoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating ours and sabmiller's u.s. operations, technologies, and services, as well as the distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the millercoors joint venture. the failure of millercoors to successfully integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. millercoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the united states to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. millercoors sells all of its products and our non-u.s. products in the united states to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. consequently, if millercoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. risks specific to the united kingdom segment sales volume trends in the united kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability. in recent years, beer volume sales in the u.k. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. a ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the u.k. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability. consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the united kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing. the trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the united kingdom. these larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact our ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. in addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. further consolidation could contribute to an 15 table of contents adverse financial impact. in the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we extend credit to pub chains in the u.k., and in some cases the amounts are significant. the continuing challenging economic environment in the u.k. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. in the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. we depend exclusively on one logistics provider for the distribution of our products in the united kingdom. tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for us in the u.k., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. if tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. risks specific to the molson coors international segment an inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. our ability to grow our mci segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. due to product price, local competition and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. if we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. our operations in emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we expect our operations in emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. in certain emerging markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. in addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in emerging markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social, and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; import and export requirements; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences. in addition, compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations, and u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in some international jurisdictions. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. risks specific to our discontinued operations indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the cervejarias kaiser brasil s.a. ("kaiser") business in brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. in 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in kaiser to femsa cerveza s.a. de c.v. ("femsa"). the terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify femsa for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. the ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure to various market risks by entering into various supplier- and market-based hedging transactions, authorized under established risk management policies that place clear controls on these activities. our objective in managing these exposures is to decrease the volatility of our earnings and cash flows due to changes in underlying rates and costs. the counterparties to our market-based transactions are generally highly rated institutions. we perform assessments of their credit risk regularly. our market-based transactions include a variety of derivative financial instruments, none of which are used for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to volatility in interest rates with regard to current and future debt offerings. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, canadian government rates, and libor. to mitigate this exposure and to achieve our desired fixed-to-floating rate debt profile, we may enter into interest rate swaps from time to time. foreign exchange risk foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency-denominated cash flows. our primary foreign currency exposures are the cad and the gbp. we manage this exposure through foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency swaps. commodity price risk we use commodities in the production and distribution of our products. to manage the related price risk for these costs, we utilize market-based derivatives and long-term supplier-based contracts. our primary objective when entering into these transactions is to achieve price certainty for commodities used in our supply chain. we manage our exposures through a combination of purchase orders, long-term supply contracts, and over-the-counter swaps. 53 table of contents details of market-risk sensitive debt, derivative and other financial instruments, are included in the table below. notional amounts by expected maturity date december 31, 2011 december 25, 2010 december 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value fair value (in millions) long-term debt: $850 million, 6.375% fixed rate notes, due 2012 44.6 44.6 (45.7 ) (47.9 ) cad 900 million, 5.0% fixed rate, notes due 2015 881.2 881.2 (971.9 ) (955.7 ) $575 million, 2.5% convertible bonds, due 2013 575.0 575.0 (608.5 ) (647.2 ) cad 500 million, 3.95% fixed rate series a notes, due 2017 489.6 489.6 (507.5 ) (486.8 ) foreign currency management: forwards 240.3 224.3 464.6 2.2 (16.2 ) cross currency swaps(1) 293.8 588.7 882.5 (311.9 ) (412.2 ) commodity pricing management: swaps (notional in gj) 1.5 0.7 2.2 (2.3 ) (2.1 ) swaps (notional in mt, rounds to zero) (4.6 ) (1) our cross currency swaps consist of a series of contracts with a net position of pay gbp 398 million, receive usd $580 million for the swaps executed in 2002 and a net position of pay cad 901 million, receive gbp 398 million for the swaps executed in 2007. on an aggregate basis, the gbp pay leg of the 2002 swaps and the gbp receive leg of the 2007 swaps offset leaving a series of net pay cad, receive usd swaps. approximately one-third of these swaps are due in may 2012 and the remainder mature in march 2014. these swaps are used to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations related to our investment in our canadian operations. see part ii item 8 financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 "derivatives instruments and hedging activities" of the notes for further discussion. we have performed a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk of interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices. the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the applicable market. the volatility of the applicable rates and prices are dependent on many factors that cannot be forecast with reliable accuracy. therefore, actual changes in fair values could differ significantly from the results presented in the table below. as of december 31, 2011 december 25, 2010 (in millions) estimated fair value volatility foreign currency risk: forwards $ (72.6 ) $ (2.3 ) interest rate risk: debt $ (124.2 ) $ (229.0 ) commodity price risk: swaps $ (2.7 ) $ (2.4 ) cross currency risk: swaps $ (91.0 ) $ (4.5 ) equity price risk: cash settled total return swap $ $ (4.1 ) option contracts $ $ (1.5 ) 54 table of contents