risk factors. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programs and films which is difficult to predict entertainment content and feature film production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a cable program or feature film, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program or film, depend i-19 primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a cable program or feature film also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and films released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are also difficult to predict. audience sizes for our cable networks are also factors that are weighed when deciding on the advertising rates and the renegotiation of affiliate rates that we receive. poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. further, the theatrical success of a feature film may impact revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, and sales of licensed consumer products. consequently, low public acceptance of our cable programs and feature films will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on our cable networks. a decline in advertising expenditures could significantly adversely affect our revenues and operating results in any given period or in specific markets. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities. disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of economic uncertainty. in addition, advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the children's toys and entertainment sectors, represent a sizeable portion of our advertising revenues. any political, economic, social or technological change may result in a reduction of these sectors' advertising expenditures. for example, at least one company has announced its intention to shift its advertising focus away from children under 12 years of age in response to concerns about child obesity and unhealthy eating. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries participants in the cable and motion picture industries depend primarily upon the sale of advertising, revenues generated by the distribution of feature films and affiliate fees to generate revenue. competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast networks and specialty cable channels; movie studios and independent film producers and distributors; local, regional and national newspapers; online activities; video gaming; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. in particular, online search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. in addition, there has been consolidation in the media industry and our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular cable programs and motion pictures and our ability to achieve high distribution levels. in addition, cable providers and dth satellite operators have developed new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. more television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. i-20 the loss of affiliation agreements could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and dth satellite operators for the distribution of our cable networks. certain bet, bet j and mtv affiliation agreements have recently expired and are currently being negotiated. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our cable networks, which may adversely affect our advertising and affiliate fee revenues. in addition, further consolidation among cable and dth satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business could adversely affect our ability to negotiate the launch of new networks or the ability to maintain existing distribution or obtain additional distribution for existing networks. in a more concentrated market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain carriage of our programming services by distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. box office receipts and dvd sales have recently been declining, which may adversely affect our prospects and results of operations several factors, including piracy, growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and low audience acceptance, may be contributing to a recent industry-wide decline in box office receipts and in declining or, in some cases, flattening dvd sales. according to adams media research, domestic sales of dvds increased by 5.4% in 2004 but decreased by 2.6% in 2005. internationally, dvd sales increased by 16% in 2004 but showed no change in 2005, according to screen digest. our ability to sell our dvds could also be affected by the influence of several large retailers, whose decisions as to placement and removal of our dvds could have a significant impact on our revenues from sales of dvds. a continuing decline in attendance by moviegoers and in dvd sales could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and growth prospects. our revenues and operating results are subject to cyclical and seasonal variations our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing and availability of theatrical and home entertainment releases and of programming for syndication and cable exhibition and the timing of the beginning of the license periods for television exhibition of motion pictures. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production costs and the possible later recognition of related revenues. in addition, the success of our individual titles may vary, causing our operating results to fluctuate. our business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's viewing and listening habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and revenue from feature films increases in the summer. the effect of such seasonality makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. we must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in technology, services and standards in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities technology in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly. advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery and storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats and downloading from the internet. for example, devices that allow users to view cable programs or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may i-21 cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. we may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute some of our licensed content across these, or any other, new platforms. in addition, the ability to capitalize on a variety of distribution platforms for our programming and films, including new technologies, is one of our key business strategies. the ability to anticipate and exploit these new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue and expand our business. increased programming and content costs may adversely affect our profits we produce programming and incur costs for all types of creative talent including actors, writers and producers, and for new show concepts. we also acquire programming, such as movies and television series, from television production companies and movie studios. an increase in the costs of programming may lead to decreased profitability. an increase in licensing costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license music videos for exhibition on our cable channels and other programming or content services from record companies in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional consideration only. we have entered into global music video licensing agreements with certain major record companies and into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. we also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies and others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements and, if so, on favorable terms. there can also be no assurance that we will be able to secure the rights to distribute the content of our licenses over new platforms on acceptable terms. if we fail to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms and consequently cannot obtain licensing rights for content needed in our operations, our revenue or costs may be adversely affected. our cable networks are included with cbs corporation's programming under certain of our affiliation agreements, and new affiliation agreements may be more difficult to negotiate former viacom was party to affiliation agreements with cable and dth satellite operators pursuant to which both our cable networks and cbs corporation's television programming were carried by these distributors. after these agreements expire, our cable networks will no longer be included with cbs corporation's programming. certain bet, bet j and mtv affiliation agreements have recently expired. there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate new affiliation agreements with these distributors on terms as favorable as was previously possible. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. for example, federal legislation and fcc rules limit the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown on video programming channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in november 2004, the fcc issued new rules that classify promotions on a channel for programs aired on that channel as commercial matter unless the programs being promoted are educational or informational as defined under fcc rules, and that limit the display during children's programming of the internet addresses of websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use characters from the program on which the website address is displayed to sell products or services. if retained without modification, these rules could have an adverse impact on our children's programming channels, including nickelodeon and nick jr., because they would force a reduction of promotional or advertising time during this programming and would limit our ability to promote our program-related websites that contain commercial material. children's advocacy groups i-22 and industry parties, including our company, have agreed to a proposal to modify these rules. the fcc has postponed implementation of the rule changes while it considers the proposal. the proposed rule modifications would mitigate the adverse impacts of the fcc's rules on our company. however, there can be no assurance that the fcc will ultimately adopt these proposals. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite operators. if such an extension took place and was not found to be unconstitutional, our content could be subject to additional regulation. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. requirements that cable operators create family friendly tiers or offer programming on an a la carte basis may decrease the distribution of our networks to cable television subscribers and materially affect our results of operations certain policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network-by-network, or &agrave; la carte, basis or to provide "family friendly" program tiers. certain distributors have recently launched "family-friendly" tiers to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. in addition, the fcc recently issued a report finding consumers would benefit if cable operators were required to offer programming on an &agrave; la carte basis. the unbundling or tiering of program services could materially reduce distribution of certain of our channels, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and could affect our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. any decline in subscribers could lead to a loss in our advertising sales and affiliate fees and a reduction in payments by cable and dth satellite operators. piracy of our motion pictures, intellectual property and other content, including digital and internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of our cable television programs and films and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our products and services. piracy of motion pictures, television programming, video content and dvds as well as other intellectual property is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of motion pictures, television programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures and other content. the proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products may have an adverse effect on our business and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. in addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on business and profitability. the loss of key personnel, including talent, could disrupt the management and operations of our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our president and chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. we believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our key executives would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. additionally, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences. these personalities are sometimes important i-23 to achieving current levels of viewership. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences. if we fail to retain these individuals or our entertainment personalities lose their current audiences, our revenues could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. if we or our suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect our business by causing delays in the production, the release date or by reducing the profit margins of our cable programs or feature films. political and economic risks associated with our businesses could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers worldwide. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. we may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where we do business. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising and other revenue, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our cable networks to cable systems and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets," which we refer to in this annual report as "sfas 142," we will test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under sfas 142 and a non-cash charge would be required. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the feature films or other content we produce, could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. any such charge could have a material effect on our reported net earnings. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations certain of our revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. i-24 our liabilities related to lease guarantees and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if blockbuster should default on certain store leases entered into prior to blockbuster's initial public offering in 1999, and pending and threatened litigation. we cannot assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. if the integration of dreamworks into our business does not yield expected benefits, or if our transition to a new distribution infrastructure in international theatrical and worldwide television markets does not fully succeed, our results of operations could be adversely impacted we acquired dreamworks llc on january 31, 2006. if the integration of dreamworks, including its motion pictures, employees and information systems, into our business is not fully successful or does not yield expected benefits to paramount's business, our expected results of operations could be adversely impacted. we also are developing our television market sales capabilities, restructuring our international distribution operations and retaining a greater proportion of international rights to our film product. any failure to fully succeed in developing our television market sales capabilities, restructuring our international distribution operations or capitalizing on the international rights we retain could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, while we are well along in our discussions regarding the sale of most of the dreamworks live-action film library, there can be no assurance that a sale will be consummated in a timely manner or at all. nai, through its voting control of viacom, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval and may have interests that are different than yours nai, through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock, has voting control of viacom. mr. sumner m. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of nai, serves as executive chairman of our board of directors and founder, and ms. shari redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, messrs. abrams and dauman are directors of both nai and viacom. nai is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. the interests of nai may not be the same as yours and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. risks related to our separation from cbs corporation our historical and pro forma financial information may not be indicative of our results as a separate company the historical and pro forma financial information presented in this form 10-k relating to periods prior to our separation from cbs corporation may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been operating as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. as a result, historical and pro forma financial information should not be relied upon as being indicative of our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business and other businesses which are controlled by sumner redstone, including cbs corporation, are and will continue to be attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes so long as we and cbs corporation are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as nai, nairi and midway i-25 games, inc., which is also controlled by mr. redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to our company. the separation agreement between cbs corporation and us prohibits us from engaging in certain types of businesses under the terms of the separation agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such ownership would cause cbs corporation to be in violation of u.s. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit cbs corporation's ability under these laws to acquire television or radio stations or television networks. additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind cbs corporation or subjects cbs corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without cbs corporation's consent. we and cbs corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation, (2) the date on which none of mr. redstone, nai, nairi or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both cbs corporation and viacom that are attributable under applicable u.s. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to u.s. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. these restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to us. the tax matters agreement and the tax rules applicable to the separation may restrict our ability to engage in certain corporate transactions in connection with the separation, we entered into a tax matters agreement, effective upon the consummation of the separation. the tax matters agreement provides, among other things, that, depending on the event, we may have to indemnify cbs corporation for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of our common stock in the merger if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax-free distribution under sections 355 and 368 of the code. in addition, the current u.s. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the distribution of our common stock in the merger would be taxable to cbs corporation, but not to its stockholders, if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in our stock ownership during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the separation, unless it is established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the separation. the treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the treasury regulations. in addition, the treasury regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. the indemnification obligations set forth in the tax matters agreement and the above-described provisions of the tax law may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make us less attractive to a potential acquiror and reduce the possibility that an acquiror will propose or seek to effect certain transactions with us. i-26 we rely on cbs corporation's performance under various agreements among the companies in connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement and a transition services agreement pursuant to which we will provide certain specified services to cbs corporation following the separation, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we will provide services and products to cbs corporation from and after the separation. the separation agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of viacom and cbs corporation following the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. in addition, pursuant to the tax matters agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and cbs corporation. each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or cbs corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. if cbs corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest the management and directors of viacom and cbs corporation own both our common stock and cbs corporation common stock, and both viacom and cbs corporation are controlled by nai. mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman of our board of directors and founder and executive chairman of the board of directors and founder of cbs corporation. ms. redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as non-executive vice chair of the board of directors of both viacom and cbs corporation. messrs. abrams and dauman are directors of nai, and mr. dauman serves as a director of both viacom and cbs corporation and mr. abrams serves as a director of viacom. this ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when viacom's and cbs corporation's management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for viacom and cbs corporation. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between viacom and cbs corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between viacom and cbs corporation thereafter. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. each of mr. redstone, ms. redstone and mr. dauman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between us and cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation each contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or cbs corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs corporation. these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. i-27 we have a new operating structure and new members of management at viacom corporate and paramount pictures the separation of former viacom into cbs corporation and viacom involved the division of former viacom's businesses. in connection with the separation, many jointly-held assets and operating systems as well as personnel were allocated between the companies, in particular at paramount pictures and in former viacom's corporate offices, and new related party agreements were entered into to govern the ongoing business relationships between the companies following the separation. viacom corporate and paramount pictures have senior management teams that include several executives who were hired relatively recently or who recently assumed all or a substantial part of their current responsibilities. there can therefore be no assurance that we will be successful under these conditions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk response to this is included in "management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk." ii-32risk factors. 18 risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. risks related to our business our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of cable television programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive and our ability to distribute and license rights to our content depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what content will be successful at a certain point in time. in addition, the commercial success of our programming, motion pictures and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing programs, motion pictures and other content available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. some of our most profitable networks have recently experienced a ratings decline. other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content. audience sizes for our media networks are factors that are weighed when deciding on the advertising rates and the negotiation of affiliate fees that we receive. poor ratings reduce volume and may reduce pricing of advertising inventory and consequently, revenues. furthermore, the theatrical success of a feature film may impact not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as dvd sales, pay television and sales of licensed consumer products. a poor theatrical performance may also impact our negotiating strength with distributors and retailers, resulting in less desirable product promotion. consequently, reduced public acceptance of our entertainment content has the ability to affect all of our revenue streams and would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. the loss of affiliation agreements could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable television operators, dth satellite operators and other distributors for the distribution of our media networks. we currently have agreements in place with the major distributors, which expire over the next several years beginning at the end of 2008, and are negotiating with other distributors or for specific channel carriage on a rolling basis. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which could adversely affect advertising and affiliate fee revenues. in addition, further consolidation among cable and dth satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast television businesses could adversely affect our ability to negotiate the launch of new networks or to maintain or expand distribution for existing networks. in a more concentrated market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain or maintain carriage of our programming services by distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. we must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities technology in the online and mobile arenas is changing rapidly. we must adapt to advances in technologies, distribution outlets and content transfer and storage (legally or illegally) to ensure that our content remains 18 table of contents desirable and widely available to our audiences while protecting our intellectual property interests. the ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from these technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. we may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute some of our licensed content across these, or any other, new platforms and must adapt accordingly. similarly, we also must adapt to changing consumer behavior driven by technological advances such as video-on-demand and a desire for more short form and user-generated and interactive content. these technological advances may impact our traditional distribution methods, such as reducing the demand for dvd product and the desire to see motion pictures in theaters. in addition, devices that allow consumers to view our entertainment content from remote locations or on a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may cause changes in audience behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. if we cannot ensure that our content is responsive to the lifestyles of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances, there could be a negative effect on our business. piracy of our entertainment content, including digital piracy, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and piracy of our brands, motion pictures and dvds, cable television and other programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us. piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack copyright and other protections similar to existing law in the united states. it is also made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of motion pictures, programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies. unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the internet such as through video sharing and other file-sharing services that either ignore or interfere with the security features of digital content is a threat to copyright owners ability to protect and exploit their property. the proliferation of unauthorized use of our entertainment content may have an adverse effect on our business and profitability because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. our revenues and operating results are subject to cyclical and seasonal variations our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing and availability of our theatrical and home entertainment releases, cable television programming and the beginning of the license periods for our entertainment content. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and print and advertising costs, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion picture and home entertainment programming, and the recognition of related revenues in later periods. in addition, the success of our individual titles may vary, causing our operating results to fluctuate. our business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and revenue from feature films increases in the summer, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. the effect of such seasonality makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. increased programming and content costs may adversely affect our profits we produce a significant amount of original programming and incur costs for all types of creative talent including actors, writers and producers, and for new show concepts. we also acquire programming, such as movies and television series, from television production companies and movie studios. an increase in the costs of programming may lead to decreased profitability. 19 table of contents an increase in licensing costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license music videos for exhibition on our cable channels and other programming services from record companies in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional consideration only. we have entered into global music video licensing agreements with the major record companies and into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. we also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies and others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements and, if so, on favorable terms. there can also be no assurance that we will be able to secure the rights to distribute the content of our licenses over new platforms on acceptable terms. if we fail to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms and consequently cannot obtain licensing rights for content needed in our operations, our revenue or costs may be adversely affected. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences. if we fail to retain these individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our revenues could be adversely affected. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our media networks to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if blockbuster inc. should default on certain store leases entered into prior to its initial public offering in 1999 or if famous players inc. should default on certain theater leases. we also are involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time. we cannot assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. risks related to our industry a decline in advertising expenditures could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on our media networks. a decline in advertising expenditures generally or in specific markets could significantly adversely affect our revenues and operating results in any given period. declines can be caused by the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. disasters, acts of terrorism, political 20 table of contents uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of economic uncertainty. in addition, advertising revenues may be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences, including a shift in spending towards online outlets and away from more traditional media. our advertising revenues may also be adversely affected by changes in audience ratings, which advertisers rely upon in making decisions to purchase advertising. advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the children toys and entertainment sectors, represent a sizeable portion of our advertising revenues. any political, economic, social or technological change may result in a reduction of these sectors advertising expenditures. for example, federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries participants in the cable networks, digital and motion picture industries depend primarily upon the sale of advertising, receipt of affiliate fees and revenues generated by the distribution of motion pictures on various media. competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, specialty cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, local, regional and national newspapers, video gaming sites and other media that compete for advertising dollars. in particular, online websites and search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. in addition, there has been consolidation in the media industry and our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. in addition, cable television operators and dth satellite operators have developed new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. more television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. requirements that cable television operators offer programming on an &agrave; la carte or tiered basis may decrease the distribution of program services and affect our results of operations certain policymakers maintain that cable television operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network-by-network, or &agrave; la carte, basis or to provide programming tiers designed specifically for certain audiences, such as family tiers. in response, certain cable television operators and other distributors have recently introduced tiers to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. legislation was introduced last year that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an &agrave; la carte basis. this legislation was defeated in senate committee and it is unclear whether it will be pursued. the unbundling or tiering of program services could reduce distribution of certain of our cable program services, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and could affect our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. a decline in subscribers could lead to a reduction in our advertising sales and the amount of affiliate fees paid by distributors. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. for 21 table of contents example, federal legislation and fcc rules limit the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown on video programming channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. on january 2, 2007, new fcc rules containing additional restrictions on children advertising became effective. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming. other domestic and international regulators support imposing additional limitations on advertising to children, including the recent ofcom ruling in the united kingdom. copyright and piracy issues may also become the subject of regulatory action in addition to the judicial action we are currently seeing. our business could be affected, potentially materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. if we or our suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, certain of which are expiring in the next year or two, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect our business by causing delays in the production, the release date or by reducing the profit margins of our programming or feature films. political and economic risks associated with our businesses could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers worldwide. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. we may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where we do business. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising and other revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our separation from cbs corporation our historical financial information may not be indicative of our results as a separate company the historical financial information presented in this form 10-k relating to 2005 and 2004 prior to our separation from cbs corporation is presented on a carve-out basis and may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been operating as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. as a result, historical financial information should not be relied upon as being indicative of our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business and other businesses which are controlled by sumner redstone, including cbs corporation, are and will continue to be attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes so long as we and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as nai, nairi and midway games, inc., which is also controlled by mr. redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, and certain rules regarding political 22 table of contents campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us. the separation agreement between cbs corporation and us prohibits us from engaging in certain types of businesses under the terms of the separation agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such ownership would cause cbs corporation to be in violation of u.s. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit cbs corporation ability under these laws to acquire television or radio stations or television networks. additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind cbs corporation or subjects cbs corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without cbs corporation consent. we and cbs corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation (december 31, 2009), (2) the date on which none of mr. redstone, nai, nairi or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both cbs corporation and viacom that are attributable under applicable u.s. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation, neither of us will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to u.s. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. these restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to us. we rely on cbs corporation performance under various agreements in connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the separation agreement, tax matters agreement, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we provide services and products to cbs corporation after the separation. the separation agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations between us and cbs corporation pursuant to the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. in addition, pursuant to the tax matters agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and cbs corporation. each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or cbs corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. if cbs corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. risks related to our control structure nai, through its voting control of viacom, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval and may have interests that are different than yours nai, through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock, has voting control of viacom. sumner m. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder, and shari redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, george abrams and philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, are directors of both nai and viacom. nai is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. the interests of nai may not be the same as yours and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. 23 table of contents certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest the management and directors of viacom and cbs corporation own both our common stock and cbs corporation common stock, and both viacom and cbs corporation are controlled by nai. mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman of our board of directors and founder and executive chairman of the board of directors and founder of cbs corporation. ms. redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as non-executive vice chair of the board of directors of both viacom and cbs corporation. messrs. abrams and dauman, our president and chief executive officer, are directors of both nai and viacom. this ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when viacom and cbs corporation management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for viacom and cbs corporation. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between viacom and cbs corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between viacom and cbs corporation thereafter. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise if we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. mr. redstone and ms. redstone may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of time between us and cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or cbs corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs corporation and, similarly, that cbs corporation renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to us. these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. response to this is included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 19 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described from time to time in our news releases and other filings made under the securities laws, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. there may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that we do not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and, under section 27a of the securities act and section 21e of the exchange act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. risks related to our business our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. the success of our programming, motion pictures and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing programs, motion pictures and other offerings available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, the level of which may be decreasing due to the economic landscape, may also affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are reflective of a program ratings, with higher ratings generally generating higher advertising revenues. in 2007, some of our program services, including mtv, bet and nickelodeon, experienced ratings fluctuations or declines. those trends could continue at those or other networks and reduce the amount of advertising revenue the affected networks receive. low audience ratings could also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. in addition, the advertising industry has recently begun to change the way it measures ratings, moving from audience ratings, which measure audience size for a program, to commercial ratings, which measure audience size for a commercial. commercial ratings are currently measured on a c3 basis, which means the number of viewers that watch the commercial live or via playback during the three days following the live broadcast. this is a different way of measuring viewership, and if we are unable to successfully adapt the pricing, structure and volume of our advertising spots to this new methodology, or if viewers change channels or fast forward during commercials, our advertising revenues could decline. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical success of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as dvd sales, television licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. in addition, because the timing of recognition of certain motion picture expenses is based on estimates of future revenues, such costs may be accelerated if the motion picture does not perform as expected, thereby affecting our results of operations. a poor theatrical performance may also negatively affect our negotiating strength with theater chains, distributors and retailers, resulting in less desirable product promotion. consequently, public acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is core to our business and has the ability to affect all of our revenue streams. a reduction in the popularity of our content could have a significant, adverse effect on our revenues. we must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities technology in the online and mobile arenas continues to evolve rapidly. we must adapt to changing consumer behavior driven by technological advances such as video-on-demand, increased mobility of content and a desire for more short form, user-generated and interactive content. changing consumer behavior may impact our traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing viewership of our programming, the demand for dvd 19 table of contents product or pay television subscriptions and/or the desire to see motion pictures in theaters. we have recently seen an industry-wide decline in domestic dvd sales, and it is uncertain if such decline will continue. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content from handheld or portable devices, and watching it on a time- delayed basis. we must continue to adapt our content to these viewership habits. technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. if we cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, there could be a negative effect on our business. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other content may adversely affect our profits in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and intend to continue to increase our investment in this area. we also acquire programming, such as motion pictures and television series, from other television production companies and studios and pay a license fee in connection with the acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming increase our expenses, and may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed, therefore leading to decreased profitability. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have been increasing. we also release certain tentpole motion pictures that generally have higher costs than the other films released during the year. therefore, a tentpole film underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability, and negatively affect the revenues we receive from other distribution platforms. an increase in other licensing costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license music and music videos for exhibition on our cable networks, websites and other content outlets from record companies in exchange for cash or advertising time or for promotional consideration only. we have entered into global music video licensing agreements with the major record companies and major music publishers and into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. we also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies and others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements or, if so, on favorable terms. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our programming and motion pictures our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, programming, and license periods for our entertainment content. for example, results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number of films released compared to the corresponding period the prior year, or due to the timing of a major event such as an awards show falling in two different quarters year over year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and print and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of programs, motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. in addition, the success of our individual mix of titles may vary period over period, causing our operating results to fluctuate. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. 20 table of contents piracy of our entertainment content, including digital piracy and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and piracy of our brands, motion pictures and dvds, programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us. piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective enforcement of copyright and technical protective measures similar to existing law in the united states. however, piracy is also a challenge domestically, and the interpretation of copyright laws as applied to our content remains in flux. piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of motion pictures, programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies. unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of our content over the internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through websites that allow the viewing, sharing and/or downloading of entertainment content by either ignoring or interfering with the content security features and copyrighted status is a threat to our ability to protect our creative works and to recoup or profit from the expense incurred to create such works. unauthorized use of our entertainment content may have an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and we are increasingly expending resources in connection with these efforts. these efforts to prevent the unauthorized use of our content may affect our profitability, and may not be successful in reducing piracy. the loss of affiliation agreements could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, dth satellite operators and other distributors for the distribution of our program services. we have agreements in place with the major distributors, some of which are currently being renegotiated, and others of which expire over the next several years and we expect to renegotiate on a rolling basis. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which could adversely affect advertising and affiliate fee revenues. in addition, further consolidation among cable and dth satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast television businesses could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution of our program services. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal. if we fail to retain these individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues could be adversely affected. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding 21 table of contents back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if blockbuster inc. should default on certain store leases or if famous players inc. should default on certain theater leases. in connection with the sale of the dreamworks live-action film library to dw funding in 2006, we are subject to a put option obligation at the then current fair value of dw funding, commencing nine months prior to the fifth anniversary of the sale. we also have a corresponding call option exercisable at fair value. to the extent the current fair value at the option closing date is insufficient to repay certain indebtedness, including any unpaid interest, of dw funding guaranteed by us, we would be required to pay the difference. in addition, we are involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time. we cannot assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. risks related to our industry changes in advertising markets could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms. a decline in advertising expenditures could significantly adversely affect our revenues and operating results in any given period. declines can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, or the economy in general, including the possibility of a recession. prospective advertisers could alter their spending priorities based on these or other factors. economic uncertainty can also be caused by disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities and could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures. in addition, advertising revenues may be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences, including shifts in spending toward online outlets and away from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television operators, dth satellite operators and other intermediaries who resell that inventory in competition with us. these types of sales are becoming more common and intermediaries are bundling this inventory with inventory in other media and aggregating it with detailed data regarding viewers, which could be more attractive to advertisers than our offerings. in addition, many of these intermediaries are much larger companies than we are and may be able to use that scale to create volume and pricing advantages. advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including children toys, electronics, video games and other entertainment sectors, represent a sizeable portion of our advertising revenues. any political, economic, social or technological change may result in a reduction of these sectors advertising expenditures. for example, federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 22 table of contents our businesses operate in highly competitive industries participants in the cable networks, digital and motion picture industries depend primarily upon the sale of advertising, receipt of affiliate fees and revenues generated by the exhibition and distribution of motion pictures on various media. competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, specialty cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, local, regional and national newspapers, video gaming sites and other media that compete for audiences. in particular, online websites and search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. distribution capacity may become increasingly limited as broadcasters transition to digital formats, especially if must carry regulations are extended to channels beyond the broadcaster primary channel. more television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. requirements that cable television operators offer programming on an &agrave; la carte or tiered basis may decrease the distribution of program services and affect our results of operations certain policymakers maintain that cable television operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network-by-network, or &agrave; la carte, basis or to provide programming tiers designed specifically for certain audiences, such as family tiers. in response, certain cable television operators and other distributors have introduced tiers to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. legislation was introduced and defeated by the senate in 2006 that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an &agrave; la carte basis, but there continues to be focus on the issue. the fcc is also reviewing whether companies that own cable networks should be required to enter into affiliation agreements with cable television operators and other distributors on an unbundled or network-by-network basis. the unbundling or tiering of our program services by cable television operators or other distributors, including a decision not to include some or all of our networks in a tier, or a requirement that we enter into affiliation agreements on a network-by-network basis, could reduce distribution of certain of our program services, perhaps significantly. it could also lead to reduced viewership on some or all of our networks and increased marketing expenses, negatively affecting our revenues from advertising and affiliate fees and our results of operations. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown, restrictions on children advertising and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming. other domestic and international regulators, including ofcom in the united kingdom, support additional limitations on advertising to children. copyright and piracy issues may also become the subject of regulatory action in 23 table of contents addition to the judicial action we are currently seeing. our business could be affected, potentially materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. in the fourth quarter of 2007, the members of the writer guild of america went on strike, and a new agreement was not approved until february 2008. the directors guild of america and screen actors guild collective bargaining agreements expire in 2008, and while an agreement has been reached with the directors guild, negotiations with the screen actors guild have not yet commenced. any extended work stoppage could affect our ability to produce new motion pictures and programs, in which case we would air repeat, acquired reality or other content that does not require union labor. such a labor dispute may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. political and economic risks associated with our businesses could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. we may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where we do business. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising and other revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our separation from cbs corporation our business and other businesses which are controlled by sumner redstone, including cbs corporation, are and will continue to be attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes so long as we and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as national amusements, inc. ( nai ), nairi, inc. and midway games, inc., which is also controlled by mr. redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us. the separation agreement between cbs corporation and us prohibits us from engaging in certain types of businesses under the terms of the separation agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such ownership would cause cbs corporation to be in violation of u.s. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit cbs corporation ability under these laws to acquire television or radio stations or television networks. additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind cbs 24 table of contents corporation or subjects cbs corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without cbs corporation consent. we and cbs corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation (december 31, 2009), (2) the date on which none of mr. redstone, nai, nairi or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both cbs corporation and viacom that are attributable under applicable u.s. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation, neither of us will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to u.s. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. these restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to us. we rely on cbs corporation performance under various agreements in connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the separation agreement, tax matters agreement, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we provide services and products to cbs corporation after the separation. the separation agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations between us and cbs corporation pursuant to the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. in addition, pursuant to the tax matters agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and cbs corporation. each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or cbs corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. if cbs corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. our historical financial information may not be indicative of our results as a separate company the historical financial information presented in this form 10-k relating to 2005 prior to our separation from cbs corporation is presented on a carve-out basis and may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been operating as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. as a result, historical financial information should not be relied upon as being indicative of our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks related to our control structure nai, through its voting control of viacom, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval and may have interests that are different than yours nai, through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock, has voting control of viacom. sumner m. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder, and shari redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, and george abrams are directors of both nai and viacom. nai is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. the interests of nai may not be the same as yours and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest certain members of our management team and directors own both our common stock and cbs corporation common stock, and both viacom and cbs corporation are controlled by nai. mr. redstone, the controlling 25 table of contents stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder and the executive chairman and founder of cbs corporation. ms. redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as non-executive vice chair of the board of directors of both viacom and cbs corporation. ms. redstone also serves as chair of the board of directors of midway games, which is also controlled by nai. mr. dauman, our president and chief executive officer, and mr. abrams are directors of both nai and viacom, and frederic salerno is a director of both viacom and cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each of us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between viacom and cbs corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between viacom and cbs corporation thereafter. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. mr. redstone, ms. redstone and mr. salerno may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of time between us and cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or cbs corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs corporation and, similarly, that cbs corporation renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to us. these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 22 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described from time to time in our news releases and other filings made under the securities laws, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. there may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that we do not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and, under section 27a of the securities act and section 21e of the exchange act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. risks related to our business global economic conditions may continue to have an adverse effect on our businesses there was a rapid softening of the economy and tightening of the financial markets in the second half of 2008, and the outlook for the economy in 2009 is uncertain. this slowing of the economy has increased unemployment and reduced the financial capacity of consumers, thereby slowing consumer spending on the products we sell and license and weakening the businesses of partners who purchase advertising on our networks and their spending on advertising generally. in addition, we depend on the financial markets for access to capital, as do our business partners such as cable and satellite operators, retailers, theater operators, games publishers and others. limited or expensive access to capital could make it more difficult for these partners to do business with us, or to do business generally, which could adversely affect our businesses. current conditions in the credit and equity markets, if they persist, could also increase our financing costs and limit our financial flexibility. the continuation, or worsening, of domestic and global economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programming, motion pictures, games and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures, games and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. the success of our programming, motion pictures, games and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, including other offerings available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution, and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, the level of which may decrease as a result of the global economic crisis, may also affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. in 2008, some of our program services experienced declines in audience size. those trends could continue at those or other networks and reduce the amount of advertising revenue we receive, which could negatively affect our results of operations. in addition, the advertising industry modified the way it measures ratings in 2008 by moving to commercial ratings, which measure audience size for a commercial. commercial ratings are measured on a c3 basis, which counts the number of viewers that watch the commercial live or via playback during the three days following the live broadcast. in 2008, the majority of our guaranteed advertising deals were sold on the c3 metric. this is a different way of measuring viewership, and failure to attract audiences to the commercials that air during our programs may negatively impact our advertising revenue. our advertising revenues may also fluctuate due to the ratings of our channels (including the timing and success of new programs), and are typically highest in the fourth quarter. low audience ratings could also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. in addition, our expenses may increase moderately as we invest in new programming, and there is no guarantee that the new programming will be successful or generate sufficient revenue to recoup the expenditure. 22 table of contents in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as dvd and blu-ray sales, television licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. a poor theatrical performance may also negatively affect our negotiating strength with theater chains, distributors and retailers, resulting in lower revenues and less desirable product promotion. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write-down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. consequently, public acceptance of our programming, motion pictures, games and other entertainment content is core to our business and has the ability to affect all of our revenue streams and the timing of certain expenses. a reduction in the popularity of our content could have a significant, adverse effect on our results of operations. we must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities technology in the online and mobile arenas continues to evolve rapidly. we must adapt to changing consumer behavior driven by technological advances such as the direct connection of television to the internet, high definition (blu-ray) packaged media, video-on-demand, increased mobility of content and a desire for more short form, user-generated and interactive content. changing consumer behavior may impact our traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing viewership of our programming, the demand for dvd product or pay television subscriptions and/or the desire to see motion pictures in theaters. the domestic dvd market has softened recently, particularly in the second half of 2008. this trend may continue in 2009, and continued declines may adversely affect our home entertainment revenues and profitability. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content from the internet on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices, and watching it on a time-delayed basis. we must continue to adapt our content to these viewership habits. technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. if we cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, there could be a negative effect on our business. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other content may adversely affect our profits in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and intend to continue to invest in this area. we also acquire programming, such as motion pictures and television series, from other television production companies and studios and pay a license fee in connection with the acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed, therefore leading to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have been increasing. in particular, the tentpole motion pictures that we release generally have higher costs than the other films released during the year. a tentpole film underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability, and negatively affect the revenues we receive from other distribution platforms. 23 table of contents an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license music and music videos for exhibition on our cable networks, websites and other content outlets from record companies in exchange for cash or advertising time or for promotional consideration. we have entered into global music video licensing agreements with the major record companies and major music publishers and into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. we also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies and others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements from these sources, or that favorable terms will be available. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and seasonal factors our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, as well as license periods for our content. for example, results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. in addition, the success of our individual mix of titles may vary period over period, causing our operating results to fluctuate. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. piracy of our entertainment content, including digital piracy and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and piracy of our brands, motion pictures and dvds, programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective enforcement of copyright and technical protective measures similar to existing law in the united states. piracy is also a challenge domestically, and the interpretation of copyright laws as applied to our content remains in flux. piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of motion pictures, programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies. unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of our content over the internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of entertainment content by either ignoring or interfering with the content security features and copyrighted status is a threat to our ability to protect our creative works and to recoup or profit from the expense incurred to create such works. unauthorized use of our entertainment content may have an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. these efforts to prevent the unauthorized use of our content may affect our profitability, and may not be successful in reducing piracy. 24 table of contents the loss of affiliation agreements, or renewal on less favorable terms, could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our program services. we have agreements in place with the major distributors, some of which expire over the next several years and we expect to renegotiate on a rolling basis. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which would adversely affect our advertising and affiliate fee revenues. in addition, further consolidation among cable and satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast television businesses could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution of our program services. furthermore, we recently announced the creation of epix, our joint venture with mgm studios and lionsgate to release our motion pictures in the pay television distribution window. if epix is not successful in securing affiliate relationships and subscribers, our revenues from this distribution window could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to secure pay television distribution for our motion pictures on favorable terms with another distributor. our video game business has a short operating history and is subject to additional risks in connection with our 2006 acquisition of harmonix, we significantly expanded our involvement in video and online games, including rock band . the video game industry experienced softness in 2008 which we saw reflected in our sales of these games. our games are distributed on several platforms, and for each platform, there are a variety of controllers and packages available. greater than anticipated returns, increases in manufacturing or distribution costs, and/or mismatches between forecasted and actual sales will have an adverse effect on the profitability of this business and affect our results of operations. further, the video game business is generally subject to the risk of intellectual property litigation, in particular patent litigation, and there are three patent cases pending against us related to console video games. although we believe we will prevail in these litigations, litigation is expensive and the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. the failure to resolve litigation on satisfactory terms could result in higher costs or the inability to sell one or more products. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal. if we fail to retain these individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues could be adversely affected. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 25 table of contents our obligations related to guarantees and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if blockbuster inc. should default on certain store leases or if famous players inc. should default on certain theater leases. blockbuster stock price has recently declined considerably and its senior debt is rated ccc by s&amp;p and caa2 by moody s. in addition, in connection with the sale of the dreamworks live-action film library to dw funding in 2006, we retained a 49% minority equity interest in dw funding and guarantee certain debt of dw funding. we are subject to a put option at the then current fair market value of dw funding, commencing nine months prior to the fifth anniversary of the sale. we also have a corresponding call option exercisable at fair market value. to the extent the current fair value at the option closing date is insufficient to repay certain indebtedness, including any unpaid interest, of dw funding guaranteed by us, we would be required to pay the difference. in addition, in connection with our joint ventures, we have made certain investments and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. we cannot assure you that our reserves and/or letters of credit are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. risks related to our industry changes in advertising markets generally could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could significantly adversely affect our revenues and operating results in any given period. declines can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, or the economy in general, causing advertisers to alter their spending priorities based on these or other factors. recent domestic and global economic conditions have caused a weakness in advertising expenditures by companies in many sectors of the economy. changes in the advertising industry, such as the introduction of commercial ratings in 2008, can also affect our advertising revenues. in addition, advertising revenues may be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences, including shifts in spending toward online and mobile outlets and away from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television operators, satellite operators and other intermediaries who resell that inventory in competition with us. in addition, political, social or technological change may result in a reduction of various sectors advertising expenditures. for example, federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons, or impose limitations on product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries participants in the cable networks, motion picture, digital and video game industries depend on consumer acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, local, regional and national newspapers, video gaming sites and other media that compete for audiences, and from pirated content. in 26 table of contents particular, a portion of the advertising on websites and mobile outlets is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. distribution capacity may become increasingly limited as broadcasters transition to digital formats, especially if must carry regulations are extended to channels beyond the broadcaster primary channel. more television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. requirements that cable television operators offer programming on an &agrave; la carte or tiered basis may decrease the distribution of program services and affect our results of operations certain policymakers maintain that cable television operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network-by-network, or &agrave; la carte, basis or to provide programming tiers designed specifically for certain audiences, such as family tiers. in response, certain cable television operators and other distributors have introduced tiers to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. the fcc is also reviewing whether companies that own cable networks should be required to enter into affiliation agreements with cable television operators and other distributors on an unbundled or network-by-network basis. a purported industry class action litigation has been filed alleging damages and seeking relief related to claimed impermissible bundling of networks by cable and satellite operators, the company and other programmers. the unbundling or tiering of our program services by cable television operators or other distributors, including a decision not to include some or all of our networks in a tier, or a requirement that we enter into affiliation agreements on a network-by-network basis, could reduce distribution of certain of our program services, perhaps significantly. it could also lead to reduced viewership on some or all of our networks and increased marketing expenses, negatively affecting our revenues from advertising and affiliate fees and our results of operations. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown, restrictions on children advertising and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming. other domestic and international regulators, including ofcom in the united kingdom, support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children. our business could be affected, potentially materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices. in addition, the repeal or weakening of laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, negatively impacting its value and 27 table of contents increasing the costs of enforcing our rights. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the screen actors guild collective bargaining agreement which covers actors who perform in our motion pictures and television programs expired on june 30, 2008, and a new agreement has not yet been reached. we are currently working under the terms and conditions of the expired agreement, and the screen actor guild continues to have the option of seeking a strike authorization from its members. such a labor dispute may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. political and economic risks associated with our businesses could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, tariffs or other trade barriers, longer payment cycles and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we operate may be even more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the united states. we also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our controlling stockholder and conflicts of interest sales of additional shares of common stock by national amusements could adversely affect the stock price national amusements ( nai ), through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock, has voting control of viacom. nai disclosed in october 2008 that it sold approximately $233 million in the aggregate of shares of viacom and cbs corporation non-voting common stock in connection with requirements under its credit facilities. nai also announced that it was in constructive negotiations with its lenders regarding such facilities and outstanding notes. although nai stated in october that it did not intend to sell any additional shares, there can be no assurance that nai at some future time will not sell additional shares of our stock, which could adversely affect our share price. through its voting control of viacom, nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval sumner m. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder, and shari redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. mr. dauman has presently recused himself from activity as an nai board member. in addition, nai board of directors has created a special committee that does not include mr. redstone or mr. dauman in order to consider issues that may be perceived to create a conflict between their responsibilities to viacom and to nai. similarly, our board of directors has acted by independent directors when appropriate to address such issues. 28 table of contents nevertheless, nai is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. the interests of nai may not be the same as yours, and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. you will be reliant on our independent directors to represent your interests. certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest both viacom and cbs corporation are controlled by nai. mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder and the executive chairman and founder of cbs corporation. ms. redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as non-executive vice chair of the board of directors of both viacom and cbs corporation. mr. dauman and mr. abrams are directors of nai, and frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each of us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between viacom and cbs corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between viacom and cbs corporation thereafter. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or cbs corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs corporation and, similarly, the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation provides that cbs corporation renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to us. these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. our business and other businesses which are controlled by sumner redstone, including cbs corporation, are and will continue to be attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as national amusements, inc. ( nai ) and nairi, inc., which are also controlled by mr. redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us or impose additional costs. 29 table of contents the separation agreement between cbs corporation and us prohibits us from engaging in certain types of businesses under the terms of the separation agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such ownership would cause cbs corporation to be in violation of u.s. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit cbs corporation ability under these laws to acquire television or radio stations or television networks. additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind cbs corporation or subjects cbs corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without cbs corporation consent. we and cbs corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation (december 31, 2009), (2) the date on which none of mr. redstone, nai, nairi or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both cbs corporation and viacom that are attributable under applicable u.s. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation, neither of us will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to u.s. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. these restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to us. we rely on cbs corporation performance under various agreements in connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the separation agreement, tax matters agreement, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we provide services and products to cbs corporation after the separation. the separation agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations between us and cbs corporation pursuant to the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. in addition, pursuant to the tax matters agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and cbs corporation. each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or cbs corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. if cbs corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 19 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described from time to time in our news releases and other filings made under the securities laws, including our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. there may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that we do not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and, under section 27a of the securities act and section 21e of the exchange act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures, games and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures, games and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. in addition, competing entertainment content, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, and increasing digital and on-demand distribution offerings also affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, our channels can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. our expenses may increase moderately as we invest in new programming, and there is no guarantee that the new programming will be successful or generate sufficient revenue to recoup the expenditure. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands and retail offerings, including the rock band franchise and consumer products, is key to the success of those businesses and their ability to generate revenues. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. 19 table of contents changes in advertising markets could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse affect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. fluctuations and declines in advertising spending can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, or the economy in general, and advertisers may adjust their spending priorities based on these or other factors. changes in the advertising industry, such as the introduction of commercial ratings in 2008, can also affect our advertising revenues. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising in the markets where we compete may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile outlets from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. political, social or technological change may also reduce various sectors advertising expenditures. for example, federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons, impose limitations on the marketing of certain movies, or regulate product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. global economic conditions may continue to have an adverse effect on our businesses recent economic conditions have adversely affected aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales and sales of video games, home entertainment and other consumer products. economic conditions can negatively affect the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. in addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products, including the rock band franchise, dvds and other home entertainment products, and consumer merchandise. we also depend on the financial markets for access to capital on favorable terms, as do many of our business partners, including cable and satellite operators, retailers, theater operators, games publishers and others. limited or expensive access to capital could make it more difficult for these partners to do business with us, or to do business generally. the worsening of current global economic conditions would adversely affect our businesses and financial condition. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable networks, motion picture, digital and video game industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, and video games, among other entertainment outlets. competition also comes from pirated content. our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may prioritize distribution of their content over ours, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution. more content distribution options increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined, or fragmented , audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents theft of our entertainment content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective enforcement of copyright and technical protective measures similar to existing law in the united states. domestically, the interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux. the weakening of laws related to the enforcement of intellectual property rights could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, negatively affecting its value. copyright theft and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the expense incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. these efforts to prevent the unauthorized use of our content may affect our profitability, and may not be successful in adequately limiting unauthorized distribution of our creative works. we must respond to and capitalize on rapid changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities consumers are spending an increasing amount of time on the internet and mobile devices, and technology in these areas continues to evolve rapidly. we must adapt our businesses to changing consumer behavior driven by new or enhanced offerings such as the direct connection of television to the internet or gaming consoles, the increased availability of content online, including potential online distribution by our traditional cable and satellite operator partners, and blu-ray, video-on-demand and other enhanced home entertainment offerings. there is also increased mobility of content and greater demand for short form, user-generated and interactive content. technological advancements and changing consumer behavior may impact our traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing viewership of our cable networks, the demand for dvd product or pay television subscriptions and/or the desire to see motion pictures in theaters. the dvd market continued to be soft in 2009. particularly in light of developments in the home entertainment arena, it is possible that the dvd market may not recover to historical levels of sales or profitability. to offset this possibility, it is important that we find new and enhanced ways to market and deliver our films securely in the home entertainment marketplace and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or achieve historical revenue or margin levels. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the internet, on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices. technological advances can increase fragmentation, creating additional competition for our content. we must continue to adapt our content to these viewership habits. technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. if we cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, there could be a negative effect on our business and prospects. 21 table of contents increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other content, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and intend to continue to invest in this area. we also acquire programming, such as motion pictures and television series, from other studios and television production companies and pay a license fee in connection with the acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have generally been increasing. a film underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability, and negatively affect the revenues we receive from other distribution platforms. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights societies and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated. music costs are particularly important to our video game and internet music businesses. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or negotiate favorable terms for license renewals or additional license agreements from these sources. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and on seasonal factors our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, as well as license periods for our content. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth calendar quarter due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer, around holidays and in the fourth calendar quarter. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. 22 table of contents changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. for example, various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown, restrictions on children advertising and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors. practices for the marketing of certain films to children are also being reviewed. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming. other domestic and international governments and regulators may support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children including ofcom in the united kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisements. in addition, certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. our business could be affected, perhaps materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies in the jurisdictions where we, or our partners, operate. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices. our video game business has a short operating history and is subject to additional risks in connection with our 2006 acquisition of harmonix, we significantly expanded our involvement in video and online games, including rock band . the video game industry experienced continuing softness in 2009, which we saw reflected in our sales of these games. competition from other video games, including music based video games, also affects sales levels. our games are distributed on several platforms, and for each platform, there are a variety of controllers and packages available. greater than anticipated returns, increases in manufacturing or distribution costs, and/or mismatches between forecasted and actual sales will have an adverse effect on the profitability of this business and affect our results of operations. further, the video game business is generally subject to the risk of intellectual property litigation, in particular patent litigation, and there are three patent cases pending against us related to console video games. although we believe we will prevail in these litigations, litigation is expensive and the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. the failure to resolve litigation on satisfactory terms could result in higher costs or the inability to sell one or more products. changes to our business could result in future costs or charges we adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, competitive factors and economic conditions. in connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets. in addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. such events could result in additional restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, and/or the incurrence of additional costs. 23 table of contents the loss of affiliation agreements, or renewal on less favorable terms, could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our program services. we have agreements in place with the major distributors, all of which are multi-year agreements at inception but expire on a staggered basis over the next several years. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which would adversely affect our advertising and affiliate fee revenues. furthermore, we recently launched epix, our premium pay television and video-on-demand service joint venture, to release our motion pictures in the pay television distribution window. if epix is not successful in securing additional affiliate relationships and expanding its subscriber base, it may not be able to continue to pay us for our motion pictures at agreed rates. our revenues from this distribution window would thus be negatively affected, and we may not be able to secure pay television distribution for our motion pictures on favorable terms with another distributor. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with returning talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. political and economic risks in the countries where we do business could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, tariffs or other trade barriers, longer payment cycles and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we operate may be even more adversely affected by recent economic conditions than the united states. we also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 table of contents the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. for example, as a joint venture partner in epix, developments in the businesses of our joint venture partners may require us to invest additional capital in epix above that which we originally anticipated. we are also involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. we cannot assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. sales of additional shares of common stock by national amusements could adversely affect the stock price national amusements, inc. ( nai ), which is controlled by our executive chairman and founder, sumner redstone, has voting control of viacom through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock. in october 2009, nai and its wholly-owned subsidiary nairi, inc. converted a portion of their class a voting common stock into class b non-voting common stock and sold approximately $603 million of class b common stock in connection with meeting certain requirements under its restructured indebtedness. in 2008, nai sold approximately $114 million of class b common stock. although nai has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell any additional shares, there can be no assurance that at some future time it will not sell additional shares of our stock, which could adversely affect our share price. also as part of a restructuring of nai indebtedness, in may 2009, nai advised us that it had pledged substantially all of its assets, including the shares of our class a common stock that it owns, to secure those obligations. that pledge remains in place. if nai defaults on its remaining obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could convert such shares of our class a common stock into shares of our class b common stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect our share price. additionally, if the creditors foreclose on the pledged shares of our class a common stock, nai will no longer own those shares and will therefore no longer have voting control of us. through nai voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder, and shari redstone, the president and a director of nai, serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, philippe dauman, our president and chief 25 table of contents executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. since the fall of 2008, mr. dauman has recused himself from activity as an nai board member with respect to all matters relating to the restructuring of nai indebtedness. in addition, nai board of directors has created a special committee that does not include mr. redstone or mr. dauman in order to consider issues that may be perceived to create a conflict between their responsibilities to viacom and to nai. similarly, our board of directors has acted by independent directors when appropriate to address such issues. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each of us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation. these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai voting control of us puts it in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. the interests of nai may not be the same as yours, and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. you will be reliant on our independent directors to represent your interests. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with the separation, or may impose additional costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 68 table of contentsrisk factors. 20 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not 19 table of contents limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. in addition, competing entertainment content, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy and increasing digital and on-demand distribution offerings also affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. our expenses may increase moderately as we invest in new programming, and there is no guarantee that the new programming will be successful or generate sufficient revenue to recoup the expenditure. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands and retail offerings is key to the success of those businesses and their ability to generate advertising, affiliate and ancillary revenues. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. we must respond to and capitalize on changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms in order to remain competitive and exploit new opportunities consumers are spending an increasing amount of time on the internet and mobile devices, and technology in these areas continues to evolve rapidly. we must adapt our businesses to changing consumer behavior driven by new or enhanced offerings such as the ability to obtain television content directly from the internet, or over-the-top access, the increased availability of content online, including potential online distribution by our traditional cable and satellite operator partners, and blu-ray, video-on-demand, subscription video-on-demand and other enhanced home entertainment offerings. there is also increased mobility of content and greater demand for short form, user-generated and interactive content. technological advancements and changing consumer behavior are affecting our traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing the demand for buying dvds. despite the significant growth of the blu-ray format, the dvd market continued to decline in 2010. it is important that we find new and enhanced ways to market and deliver our films securely in the home entertainment marketplace and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or achieve historical revenue or margin levels. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the internet, on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices. at the same time, windows for exhibition of movies are shortening, with each shortened window potentially cannibalizing revenues from other windows. technological 20 table of contents advances can increase fragmentation, creating additional competition for our content. we must continue to adapt our content to these viewership habits. if we cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, there could be a negative effect on our business and prospects. theft of our entertainment content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our business and profitability the success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective enforcement of copyright and technical protective measures similar to existing law in the united states. domestically, the interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux. the failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of laws related to the enforcement of intellectual property rights could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, negatively affecting its value. copyright theft and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the expense incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. these efforts to prevent the unauthorized use of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in adequately limiting unauthorized distribution of our creative works. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets. competition also comes from pirated content. our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. the pending acquisition of one of our primary programming competitors by the largest domestic distributor would significantly increase such competition by vertically integrated enterprises. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. more content distribution options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined, or fragmented, audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents changes in advertising markets could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse affect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. fluctuations and declines in advertising spending can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, or the economy in general, and advertisers may adjust their spending priorities based on these or other factors. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising in the markets where we compete may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile outlets from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. political, social or technological change may also reduce various sectors advertising expenditures. for example, federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons, impose limitations on the marketing of certain movies, or regulate product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other content, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and intend to continue to invest in this area. we also acquire programming, such as motion pictures and television series, from other studios and television production companies and pay license fees in connection with the acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have generally been increasing. a film underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability and negatively affect the revenues we receive from subsequent distribution channels. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or negotiate favorable terms for license renewals or additional license agreements from these sources. 22 table of contents our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and on seasonal factors our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, as well as license periods for our content. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our new fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer, around holidays and in our first fiscal quarter. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. global economic conditions may continue to have an adverse effect on our businesses economic conditions in recent years have adversely affected a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales and sales of home entertainment and other consumer products. economic conditions can negatively affect the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. in addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. the worsening of current global economic conditions would adversely affect our businesses. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business the multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by u.s. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. for example, various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown, restrictions on children advertising and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors. practices for the marketing of certain films to children are also being reviewed. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, in 2010, the u.s. copyright office, pursuant to the dmca, provided exemptions to the rules prohibiting the anti-circumvention of technical protection measures applied to content media, permitting users to bypass dvds digital rights management features under certain circumstances. in addition, other domestic and international governments and regulators may support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children, including ofcom in the united kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisement, and certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. our businesses could be affected, perhaps materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies in the jurisdictions where we, or our partners, operate. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices. 23 table of contents changes to our business could result in future costs or charges we adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, competitive factors and economic conditions. in connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets. in addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, and/or the incurrence of additional costs. the loss of affiliation agreements, or renewal on less favorable terms, could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our program services. we have agreements in place with the major distributors, all of which are multi-year agreements at inception and expire on a staggered basis over the next several years. there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which would adversely affect our advertising and affiliate fee revenues. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. political and economic risks in the countries where we do business could harm our financial condition our and our partners businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the united states. we also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 table of contents the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. sales of additional shares of common stock by national amusements could adversely affect the stock price national amusements, inc. ( nai ), which is controlled by our executive chairman and founder, sumner redstone, has voting control of viacom through its beneficial ownership of our class a common stock. in october 2009, nai and its wholly-owned subsidiary nairi, inc. converted a portion of their class a voting common stock into class b non-voting common stock and sold approximately $603 million of class b common stock in connection with meeting certain requirements under its restructured indebtedness. in 2008, nai sold approximately $114 million of class b common stock. although nai has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell any additional shares, there can be no assurance that at some future time it will not sell additional shares of our stock, which could adversely affect the stock price. also as part of a restructuring of nai indebtedness, in may 2009, nai advised us that it had pledged substantially all of its assets, including the shares of our class a common stock that it owns, to secure those obligations. that pledge remains in place. if nai defaults on its remaining obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could convert such shares of our class a common stock into shares of our class b common stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect the stock price. additionally, if the creditors foreclose on the pledged shares of our class a common stock, nai will no longer own those shares and will therefore no longer have voting control of us. through nai voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone daughter, is the president and a director of nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. in addition, philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a 25 table of contents director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each of us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. since the fall of 2008, mr. dauman has recused himself from activity as an nai board member with respect to all matters relating to the restructuring of nai indebtedness. in addition, nai board of directors has created a special committee that does not include mr. redstone or mr. dauman in order to consider issues that may be perceived to create a conflict between their responsibilities to viacom and to nai. similarly, our board of directors has acted by independent directors when appropriate to address such issues. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with the separation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 21 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time, especially given the length of the production cycle. in addition, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, increasing digital offerings, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low 21 table of contents audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands has a significant impact on revenues from consumer products and licensing activities. similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including the expansion of our presence abroad. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television and digital licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways consumers are spending an increasing amount of time online and on mobile devices and tablets, and technology and business models in these areas continue to evolve rapidly. new forms of content distribution provide different economic models and compete in ways that are not entirely predictable. for example, digital distributors are generally licensed different rights than traditional cable and satellite operators, in many cases having rights to older, library product for use in later windows. nevertheless, library product competes in some respects with the current content offered by traditional cable and satellite operators, and the cable and satellite operators are increasingly offering applications that distribute cable and satellite television to portable devices in competition with digital-only distributors. such competition could reduce demand for our traditional television offerings or for the offerings of digital distributors, and reduce our revenue from these sources. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the internet, on their televisions and on tablets and other portable devices. there is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. consumer demand for dvds has been declining, and there can be no assurance that such demand will be entirely replaced by newer offerings or that the profitability of such offerings will compare to that of dvd sales and rentals. at the same time, exhibition windows are evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. for example, some distributors have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. some distributors have taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize revenue and profitability. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets. competition also comes from pirated content. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content distribution options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to fragmented audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses 22 table of contents generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, isps and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. theft of our entertainment content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the united states and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. the interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux. the failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content, a disruption of our services, or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows, which is likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized distribution, performance and copying of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our businesses economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales, theatrical release, home entertainment sales and television licensing, and sales of consumer products. economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. they can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. in addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. the worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse affect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. 23 table of contents the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the growth rate of our advertising revenues. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, which is provided by third parties. the results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including difficulties related to the employed statistical sampling methods, new methods of watching our networks, such as on computers, and the shifting of the marketplace to the use of measurement of different viewer behavior, such as delayed viewing. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators are considering voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny may deter certain advertisers from advertising on our networks. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and continue to invest in this area. we also acquire programming, motion pictures, television series, and other rights such as consumer products offerings from other companies and pay license fees in connection with the acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have generally been increasing. a film underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability and negatively affect the revenues we receive from subsequent distribution channels. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as 24 table of contents effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and licensing of programs. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors that affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, if our programming services are required to be offered on an &aacute; la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers on some or all of our channels. our businesses could be affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. for example, the eu european court of justice recently ruled that some territorial, as opposed to pan-eu, licensing of content for satellite distribution violates european union law and that some existing agreements related to satellite distribution with territorial restrictions may be unenforceable. the effects of this ruling on our business are not yet fully realized. in addition, some international governments and regulators support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children, including ofcom in the united kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisement, and certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. 25 table of contents changes to our business could result in future costs or charges we periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, industry changes, technological developments, competitive factors and economic conditions. in connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets, and there can be no assurance that these actions will not be disruptive to our ordinary business activities. in addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, programming write-downs and/or the incurrence of additional costs. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, online content distributors, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements, or the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, costly litigation to enforce our rights. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. international political and economic risks could harm our financial condition our and our partners businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export and market access restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by economic conditions than the united states. we also 26 table of contents may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. sales and pledges of shares of common stock by national amusements could adversely affect the stock price national amusements, inc. ( nai ), which is controlled by our executive chairman and founder, sumner redstone, has voting control of viacom through its beneficial ownership of approximately 79% of our outstanding class a common stock. based on information provided to us by nai, the shares of our class a common stock beneficially owned by nai are owned by nai directly and nai entertainment holdings llc ( nai eh ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of nai. the shares of class a common stock owned by nai eh, which represent approximately 28% of our outstanding class a common stock, are pledged to nai lenders in connection with a restructuring of nai indebtedness. if nai defaults on its obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could sell, and/or convert to non-voting class b common stock and sell, such shares of our voting class a common stock, which could adversely affect the stock price. although nai has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell or pledge any additional shares, there can be no assurance that it will not do so at some future time, which could adversely affect the stock price. through nai voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone daughter, is the president and a director of nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai 27 table of contents also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and founder and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 21 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the securities and exchange commission, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. 21 table of contents our success is dependent upon measured audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time, especially given the length of the production cycle. in addition, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, increasing digital offerings, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands has a significant impact on revenues from consumer products and licensing activities. similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including the expansion of our presence abroad. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television and digital licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways consumers are spending an increasing amount of time online and on mobile devices and tablets, and technology and business models in these areas continue to evolve rapidly. new forms of content distribution provide different economic models and compete in ways that are not entirely predictable. such competition could reduce demand for our traditional television offerings or for the offerings of digital distributors, and reduce our revenue from these sources. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the internet, on their televisions and on tablets and other portable devices. there is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. consumer demand for dvds continues to decline, and there can be no assurance that such demand will be entirely replaced by newer offerings or that the profitability of such offerings will compare to that of dvd sales and rentals. at the same time, distribution windows are evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. for example, some distributors have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. some distributors have taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize revenue and profitability. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. 22 table of contents our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets. competition also comes from pirated content. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content distribution options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, isps and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. theft of our entertainment content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming and motion pictures and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the united states and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. the interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux and copyright enforcement has recently encountered political opposition. the failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content, a disruption of our services, or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows, which is likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized distribution, performance and copying of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. 23 table of contents global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our businesses economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment sales, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. they can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. in addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. the general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the growth rate of our advertising revenues. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. for example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, which is provided by third parties. the results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including difficulties related to the employed statistical sampling methods, new methods of watching our networks, such as on computers, and the shifting of the marketplace to the use of measurement of different viewer behavior, such as delayed viewing. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny may deter certain advertisers from advertising on our networks. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and continue to invest in this area. we also acquire programming, motion pictures, television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment products offerings from other companies and we pay license fees, royalties or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. 24 table of contents the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and licensing of programs. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors that affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, if our programming services are required to be offered on an &aacute; la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers on some or all of our channels. our businesses could be affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our 25 table of contents business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. for example, the eu european court of justice has ruled that some territorial, as opposed to pan-eu, licensing of content for satellite distribution violates european union law and that some existing agreements related to satellite distribution with territorial restrictions may be unenforceable. the effects of this ruling on our business are not yet fully realized. in addition, some international governments and regulators support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children, including ofcom in the united kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisement, and certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. changes to our business could result in future costs or charges we periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, industry changes, technological developments, competitive factors and economic conditions. in connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets, and there can be no assurance that these actions will not be disruptive to our ordinary business activities. in addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, programming write-downs and/or the incurrence of additional costs. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, online content distributors, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements, or the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, costly litigation to enforce our rights. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities we engage. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. 26 table of contents international political and economic risks could harm our financial condition our and our partners businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export and market access restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by economic conditions than the united states. for example, certain european countries have considerable exposure to the implications of the european debt crises and our operations in those regions could be significantly impacted by, among other things, reduced sales of our retail products and sharp foreign exchange movements. we also may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. in addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. sales and pledges of shares of common stock by national amusements could adversely affect the stock price national amusements, inc. ( nai ), which is controlled by our executive chairman and founder, sumner redstone, has voting control of viacom through its beneficial ownership of approximately 79% of our outstanding class a common stock. based on information provided to us by nai, the shares of our class a common stock beneficially owned by nai are owned by nai directly and nai entertainment holdings llc ( nai eh ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of nai. the shares of class a common stock owned by nai eh, which represent approximately 28% of our outstanding class a common stock, are pledged to nai lenders. if nai defaults on its obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the 27 table of contents creditors transfer such shares could sell such shares of our voting class a common stock and/or convert such shares to non-voting class b common stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect the stock price. although nai has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell or pledge any additional shares, there can be no assurance that it will not do so at some future time, which could adversely affect the stock price. through nai voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone daughter, is the president and a director of nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and founder and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 20 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon measured audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. in addition, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, increasing online, mobile and app offerings, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network distribution potential. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from consumer products, home entertainment and other licensing activities. similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including our ability to expand our presence abroad. 20 table of contents in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, digital and licensed consumer products. consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. new consumer behaviors related to changes in content distribution affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. in addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors, and from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. there is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. digital downloads, rights lockers, rentals and subscription services are competing for consumer preferences with each other and with traditional physical distribution of dvds and blu-ray discs. each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences has economic consequences that are not completely predictable. distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. for example, some distributors have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. some distributors have taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize revenue and profitability. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets, as well as from search, program guides and second screen applications. competition also comes from pirated content. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, isps and other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the united states and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. the interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which are likely to have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our businesses economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment sales, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. they can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. in addition, increased unemployment and declines in consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the growth rate of our advertising revenues. 22 table of contents in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the company as current advertising methods. advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. while nielsen statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification is in its infancy, and viewership on tablets and smartphones, which is growing rapidly, is presently not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny has deterred certain advertisers from advertising on our networks and this effect could worsen. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content and continue to invest in this area. the filmed entertainment segment core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. we also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings from other companies, and we pay license fees, royalties or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. further, rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with acquired programming, which typically is acquired pursuant to multi-year agreements. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. 23 table of contents our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors, which affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our u.s. media properties. for example, if our programming services are required to be offered on an &aacute; la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and loss of viewers on some or all of our channels. further, congress has initiated hearings to consider significant changes in copyright law. our businesses could be affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. in addition, the interpretation of existing laws by courts and regulators can have a significant effect on our business. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate, including quotas, tax regimes and currency restrictions. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. changes to our business could result in future costs or charges we periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, industry changes, technological developments, competitive factors and economic conditions. in connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets, and there can be no assurance that these actions will not be disruptive to our ordinary business activities. in addition, external events, such as changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could reduce our revenues and negatively affect the value of our 24 table of contents assets. such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, programming write-downs and/or the incurrence of additional costs. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements, or the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, costly litigation to enforce our rights. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities we engage. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. the expiration date for the collective bargaining agreement with the writers guild of america is may 1, 2014, and the expiration date for the collective bargaining agreements with each of the directors guild of america, inc. and sag-aftra is june 30, 2014. negotiations with the three guilds will occur in the upcoming months. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. international political and economic risks could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export and market access restrictions, censorship, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by economic conditions than the united states. for example, certain european countries have recently experienced significant economic downturns and related political turmoil and our operations in those regions could be significantly impacted by, among other things, reduced sales of our retail products and sharp foreign exchange movements. we also may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. in addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or 25 table of contents other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face continually evolving cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming and motion picture services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users proprietary information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures. although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users data. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. through nai voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone daughter, is the president and a director of 26 table of contents nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and founder and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk.risk factors. 17 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon measured audience acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content's acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. consumer acceptance of our content is affected by the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other app offerings. in addition, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of measured audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions and measurement difficulties. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network's distribution potential. in addition, consumer acceptance of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from consumer products, home entertainment and other licensing activities. similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including our ability to expand our presence abroad. 17 table of contents in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, digital and licensed consumer products. changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors, and from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. there is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. digital downloads, rights lockers, rentals and subscription services are competing for consumer preferences with each other and with traditional physical distribution of dvds and blu-ray discs. each distribution model has different risks and economic consequences for us so the rapid evolution of consumer preferences may have an economic impact that is not completely predictable. distribution windows are also evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. for example, some of our largest distributors are combining and have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. some distributors have taken steps to limit our direct access to consumers or taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize our revenue and profitability. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable network, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and second screen applications. competition also comes from pirated content. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, isps, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the united states and europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. the interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the 18 table of contents failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the company as current advertising methods. advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics, as well as upon nielsen information. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification is in its infancy, and viewership on tablets and smartphones, which is growing rapidly, is presently not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. in addition, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising could adversely affect advertising sales and revenue. global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our businesses economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment sales, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. they can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. in addition, increased unemployment and declines in consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. general worsening of global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas. 19 table of contents increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content and continue to increase our investment in this area. the filmed entertainment segment's core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. we also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings from other companies, and we pay license fees, royalties or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. further, rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with all kinds of programming. in addition, increased competition from new entrants into the market for development and production of new content and for acquisitions is making these markets more competitive and could increase costs. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film's initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if a film is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and several online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. while many consumers have a choice of distributors from which to access our content, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to 20 table of contents time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights or to seek damages under competition and other laws. for more information about one such lawsuit, see item 3. legal proceedings. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children's programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors, which affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress, the fcc and foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties. for example, canada is considering "pick-and-pay" regulations. if the u.s. were to demand that our programming services be offered on an la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and loss of viewers on some or all of our channels. further, congress has initiated hearings to consider significant changes in copyright law. our businesses could be adversely affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. in addition, the interpretation of existing laws by courts and regulators can have a significant effect on our business. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate, including quotas, tax regimes and currency restrictions. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities we engage. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. we face continually evolving cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming and motion picture services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal and certain partners' systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users' proprietary and personal information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures. although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users' proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, including from 21 table of contents regulatory or consumer actions related to consumer data collection and other data privacy concerns, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. international political and economic risks could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic and regulatory environment, export and market access restrictions, censorship, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, regulations regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability, conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may have weaker economic conditions than the united states. for example, certain european countries have experienced significant economic downturns and related political turmoil in recent years and our operations in those regions could be significantly impacted by, among other things, reduced sales of our retail products and sharp foreign exchange movements. we also may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions and sanctions. in addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. through nai's voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone's daughter, is the president and a director of nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and founder and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated 22 table of contents with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai's voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 49risk factors. 18 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success is dependent upon public acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content's acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. consumer acceptance of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. we invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks and in our theatrical releases, before learning the extent to which it will garner consumer acceptance. in addition, general economic conditions affect our audience's acceptance of our content. in our media networks business, consumer acceptance of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, home entertainment and other licensing activities. our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the u.s. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products. as a result, a lack of consumer acceptance of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or longer term. deficiencies in audience measurement on various platforms adversely impacts our program ratings and adversely affects our advertising revenues and affiliate fees traditionally, advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics, as well as upon nielsen information. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, which is growing rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of measured audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions and measurement difficulties. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. the use of new ratings technologies and measurements, and viewership on new platforms or devices that is not being measured, could have an impact on our program ratings. for example, while c-3, a current television industry ratings system, measures live commercial 18 table of contents viewing plus three days of dvr and video-on-demand playback, the growing viewership occurring on subsequent days of dvr and video-on-demand playback is excluded from c-3 ratings. poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. low audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network's distribution potential. changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors, from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. time-shifting technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. similarly, new advertising blocking technologies that enable consumers to circumvent online advertisements could also adversely affect our advertising revenues as they impact the attractiveness of our digital offerings to advertisers. in addition, the evolution of consumer preferences away from rental and purchase services towards subscription services may have an economic impact on our revenues that is not completely predictable. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. some distributors have taken steps to limit our direct access to consumers or taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable network, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and second screen applications. competition also comes from pirated content. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent, which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, isps, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as 19 table of contents through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the company as current advertising methods. advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. in addition, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising could adversely affect advertising sales and revenue. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the united states and europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. such foreign copyright theft often results in internet viewership in major markets as well. the interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. for example, new mobile broadcasting tools enable users to livestream any content, including copyrighted content, which can lead to content theft and could have an adverse impact on the monetization of our content. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our businesses global economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment sales, television licensing and sales of consumer products. global economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. 20 table of contents increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, as well as judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content and continue to invest significantly in this area. the filmed entertainment segment's core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. we also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings from other companies, and we pay license fees, royalties or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. increased competition from new entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as netflix and amazon, increases our content costs as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment. increased competition in the acquisition of programming may also lead to more complex negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we acquire or retain cannot be predicted with certainty in the future. further, rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with all kinds of programming. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. upon a film's initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. if a film is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and several online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us, or at all. while many consumers have a choice of distributors from which to access our content, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects 21 table of contents and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. further, the loss of favorable packaging and positioning opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights or to seek damages under competition and other laws. for more information about one such lawsuit, see item 3. legal proceedings. consolidation among cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers and the development of alternative offerings for consumers could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability consolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers could give the largest operators considerable leverage and market power in their relationships with programmers. we currently have agreements in place with the major u.s. cable and satellite operators and continued consolidation could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those distributors. in addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors that carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers. these alternative packages of networks are generally smaller than the traditional cable package, and some allow the consumer to customize its package of networks to a certain extent. although our affiliation agreements effectively limit these alternative packages in a variety of ways, to the extent these alternative packages are widely accepted by consumers in lieu of traditional cable packages, we could experience a decline in subscribers to certain of our networks, which could lead to lower affiliate revenues and advertising revenues. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children's programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors, which affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress, the fcc and foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties. for example, canada recently adopted "pick-and-pay" regulations. if the u.s. were to demand that our programming services be offered on an la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and loss of viewers on some or all of our channels. further, congress has initiated hearings to consider significant changes in copyright law. our businesses could be adversely affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. in addition, the interpretation of existing laws by courts and regulators can have a significant effect on our business. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate, including quotas, tax regimes, currency restrictions and data protection regimes. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. for example, the eu recently invalidated the u.s. - eu safe harbor framework for data transfer from the eu to the u.s. this decision will affect the legal framework within which we may transfer data from the eu to the u.s. and could have adverse effects on our business practices. furthermore, laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. we face continually evolving cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming and motion picture services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal and certain partners' systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users' proprietary and personal information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in 22 table of contents connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures. although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, natural or other disasters, terrorist attacks, or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. in addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. while we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users' proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and financial exposure, including from regulatory or consumer actions related to consumer data collection and other data privacy concerns, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. in addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. international political and economic risks could harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic and regulatory environment, export and market access restrictions, censorship, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, regulations regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability, conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets. in particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances. there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market. furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may have weaker economic conditions than the united states. for example, certain european countries have experienced significant economic downturns and related political turmoil in recent years and our operations in those regions could be significantly impacted by, among other things, reduced sales of our retail products and sharp foreign exchange movements. we also may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions and sanctions. in addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents we could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and policies we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous international jurisdictions. our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate , and may be subject to significant change. in addition, our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation or settlements may occur. such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. through nai's voting control of viacom and cbs corporation, certain members of management, directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and nai is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval mr. redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman and chief executive officer of nai, serves as our executive chairman and founder. shari redstone, mr. redstone's daughter, is the president and a director of nai and serves as the non-executive vice chair of our board of directors. philippe dauman, our president and chief executive officer, is a director of nai, and george abrams, one of our directors, is a director of nai. nai also controls cbs corporation, with mr. redstone serving as its executive chairman and founder and ms. redstone serving as its non-executive vice chair. frederic salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of cbs corporation. the nai ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs corporation. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs corporation. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, nai's voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as nai retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than nai will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. the interests of nai may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. 24 table of contents we, nai and cbs corporation, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, nai and cbs corporation are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 52risk factors. 20 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. our executive officers the following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who serves as a viacom executive officer. name age position thomas e. dooley 60 president and chief executive officer; director wade davis 44 executive vice president, chief financial officer michael d. fricklas 56 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary katherine gill-charest 52 senior vice president, controller dede lea 51 executive vice president, global government affairs scott mills 48 executive vice president and chief administrative officer information about each of our executive officers is set forth below. thomas e. dooley mr. dooley has been our president and chief executive officer since august 18, 2016. he has informed the company of his decision to depart the company but has agreed to remain in his position through november 15, 2016. prior to his current position, he served as our senior executive vice president beginning in september 2006 and added the additional role of chief operating officer in may 2010. he has served as a member of our board since january 1, 2006. he served as our chief administrative officer from september 2006 to may 2010 and as our chief financial officer from january 2007 to september 2010. mr. dooley was co-chairman and chief executive officer of dnd capital partners, l.l.c., a private equity firm specializing in media and telecommunications investments that he co-founded with mr. dauman, from may 2000 until september 2006. before that, mr. dooley held various corporate and divisional positions at the predecessor of viacom, which he first joined in 1980, including deputy chairman and member of its executive committee. mr. dooley served as a director of sapphire industrials corp. from 2007 to 2010. wade davis mr. davis has been our executive vice president, chief financial officer since november 2012. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, strategy and corporate development beginning in august 2009, as senior vice president, mergers &amp; acquisitions and strategic planning from january 2007 to august 2009 and as senior vice president of mergers &amp; acquisitions beginning january 1, 2006. prior to joining viacom, mr. davis was an investment banker in the technology and media sectors for more than a decade. 19 table of contents michael d. fricklas mr. fricklas has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since january 1, 2006. prior to that, he was executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of the predecessor of viacom beginning in may 2000 and senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from october 1998 to may 2000. he first joined viacom's predecessor in july 1993, serving as vice president and deputy general counsel and assuming the title of senior vice president in july 1994. katherine gill-charest ms. gill-charest has been our senior vice president, controller and chief accounting officer since october 2010. prior to that, she was senior vice president, deputy controller beginning in april 2010 and vice president, deputy controller from may 2007 to april 2010. prior to joining viacom, ms. gill-charest served as chief accounting officer of wpp group usa from november 2005 to may 2007 and as its vice president, group reporting from february 2001 to november 2005. dede lea ms. lea has been our executive vice president, global government affairs since january 2013, having previously served as executive vice president, government relations beginning in november 2005. prior to that, she was senior vice president, government relations of the predecessor of viacom beginning in september 2005. prior to that, she served as vice president of government affairs at belo corp. from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president, government affairs of viacom's predecessor from 1997 to 2004. scott mills mr. mills has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since may 2015. previously, he was executive vice president, human resources and administration beginning in october 2012. prior to that, he was president and chief operating officer of bet networks beginning in july 2007, its president of digital media from august 2006 to july 2007 and its chief financial officer beginning in 2003. he first joined bet networks in 1997, serving as senior vice president of strategy &amp; business development, and served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of bet interactive from 1999 to 2003. mr. mills has served as a director of principal financial group inc. since july 2016. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. the company's business, results of operations and stock prices may be adversely affected by the uncertainty stemming from ongoing transitions involving our board and management and related changes in strategy, including a potential business combination with cbs and the recent creation of our global entertainment group within our media networks segment the recent and highly public controversy relating to the company's governance created a significant degree of uncertainty with respect to the company and we have undergone significant transitions on our board and among our senior management. for example, our former executive chairman, president and chief executive officer resigned effective august 18, 2016. his successor, our interim president and chief executive officer, subsequently informed our board of his decision to remain in the position until november 15, 2016 and to depart the company thereafter, and on october 31, 2016 we announced that robert bakish had been appointed acting president and chief executive officer as of november 15, 2016. in addition, on september 29, 2016, our board received a letter from national amusements requesting that our board explore a potential combination of viacom and cbs. subsequently, our board formed a special committee of independent directors to consider the request from national amusements and any proposed transaction, and the special committee has hired independent legal and financial advisers. we are subject to various uncertainties and risks related to a potential combination with cbs, including that an agreement may or may not be reached with cbs or may take an uncertain amount of time; that such a transaction would not necessarily require approval of our stockholders other than national amusements; that terms of any potential transaction with cbs (including the applicable price and/or exchange ratio) are not known; and that the effect of any potential transaction (or absence of a transaction) on the company and its business cannot be ascertained at this time. also, we announced on october 31, 2016 the creation of our global entertainment group as a new brand group within our media networks segment to combine vimn, our former music &amp; entertainment group (which included mtv, comedy central, vh1, spike and logo), as well as tv land and cmt. we also announced that our former kids &amp; family group 20 table of contents would be reestablished as the nickelodeon group to exploit growth opportunities in all facets of the kids segment, including recreation and hospitality. some or all of the foregoing factors have had and/or may have an adverse impact on the company's ability to negotiate contractual arrangements on commercially advantageous terms; to attract, retain and motivate key management and employees; to access the capital markets on the most cost-efficient terms; and otherwise to operate its business in the most efficient manner. some or all of these factors have caused and/or may cause volatility in our stock price, have imposed and/or may impose significant demands on the time of senior management and have had and/or may have an adverse impact on the business operations, financial position and results of operations of the company. our success is dependent upon public acceptance of our brands, programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on the public's acceptance of our content, which is difficult to predict. consumer acceptance of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. we invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks and in our motion pictures, before learning the extent to which it will garner consumer acceptance. in addition, general economic conditions affect our audience's discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content. in our media networks business, consumer acceptance of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, and other licensing activities. our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the u.s. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products. as a result, a lack of consumer acceptance of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or longer term. deficiencies in audience measurement on various platforms adversely impacts our program ratings and adversely affects our advertising and affiliate revenues advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. in our media networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of measured audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions and are impacted by measurement difficulties. depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. the use of new ratings and measurement technologies, and viewership on platforms or devices that is not being measured, could have an impact on our measured audience size. for example, while c-3, a current television industry ratings system, measures live commercial viewing plus three days of dvr and video-on-demand playback, the growing viewership occurring on subsequent days of dvr and video-on-demand playback is excluded from c-3 ratings. poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. low audience ratings can also negatively affect our ability to negotiate higher affiliate fees and/or limit a network's distribution potential. 21 table of contents changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may affect our viewership and profitability in unpredictable ways technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable. consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors, from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. time-shifting technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. similarly, new advertising blocking technologies that enable consumers to circumvent online advertisements could also adversely affect our advertising revenues as they impact the attractiveness of our digital offerings to advertisers. in addition, the evolution of consumer preferences away from rental and purchase services towards subscription services may have an economic impact on our revenues that is not completely predictable. new technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. some distributors have taken steps to limit our direct access to consumers or taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities. all of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable network, motion picture, digital and consumer product industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and second screen applications. competition also comes from pirated content. increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as netflix, amazon and hulu, increases our content costs as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment. increased competition in the acquisition of programming may also lead to more complex negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we acquire or retain cannot be predicted with certainty in the future. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent, which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending 22 table of contents toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the company as current advertising methods. advertising expenditures may also be affected by regulatory, social or technological change. for example, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. in addition, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising could adversely affect advertising sales and revenue. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights in our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the u.s. and europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. the interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. for example, new mobile broadcasting tools enable users to livestream content, including copyrighted content, which can lead to content theft and could have an adverse impact on the monetization of our content. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits and balance sheet in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content and continue to invest significantly in this area. the filmed entertainment segment's core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. we also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings from other companies, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. these costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. further, rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with all kinds of programming. 23 table of contents the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write down of the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film's initial domestic theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. if we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. an increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. for example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. there can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment products, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline in any given period or in specific markets we are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. we have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and several svod and other ott content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us, or at all. while many consumers have a choice of distributors from which to access our content, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees. further, the loss of favorable packaging and positioning opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. in addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights or to seek damages under competition and other laws. consolidation among cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability consolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers has given the largest operators considerable leverage and market power in their relationships with programmers. we currently have agreements in place with the major u.s. cable and satellite operators and this consolidation has affected, and could continue to affect, our ability to maximize the value of our content through those distributors. in addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors that carry our programming, subject our affiliate revenues to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 24 table of contents the development of alternative offerings for consumers has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our viewership, revenue and profitability in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers. these alternative packages of networks are generally smaller than the traditional cable package, and some allow the consumer to customize its package of networks to a certain extent. to the extent these alternative packages are widely accepted by consumers in lieu of traditional cable packages, we could experience a decline in subscribers to certain of our networks, which could lead to lower affiliate and advertising revenues. political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our businesses and harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers, partners and audiences worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. economic conditions in many different markets around the world therefore affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions in each market can also impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks by causing them to reduce their spending on advertising, and can impact our audience's discretionary spending. in addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar has increased. such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period. in addition, our businesses are exposed to certain political and economic risks inherent in conducting a global business. these include, among others: changes in the regulatory environment in the markets where we operate, including the imposition of new regulations or changed interpretations of existing regulations, particularly regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship; potential for longer payment cycles; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and changes in anti-corruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties. these political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses and harms our financial condition. for example, voters in the uk approved the non-binding brexit referendum in june 2016. in order to effect brexit, a process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu. depending upon the terms of brexit, if any, the uk could lose access to the single eu market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members. the effects of the brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the uk from the eu may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the uk, the eurozone, the eu and elsewhere and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the euro and the british pound. in addition, brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the eu, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use uk law under country of origin rules for programming in the eu, potential trade barriers between the uk and the eu and between the uk and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. given that a portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the uk, any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 25 table of contents changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws, laws affecting intellectual property rights or other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children's programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors, which affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. in addition, the u.s. congress, the fcc and certain foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties. for example, the fcc recently proposed regulations intended to increase competition in the cable set-top box market, which, if approved, could lead to government oversight of certain provisions of programming distribution agreements and disruption to the cable business model. further, congress has held hearings to consider significant changes in copyright law. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate, including quotas, tax regimes, currency restrictions and data protection regimes. our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce legal rights and changes in existing laws (or changes in interpretation) by courts and regulators. we could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. we could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. furthermore, laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the united states, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. we could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous international jurisdictions. our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and may be subject to significant change. in addition, our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation or settlements may occur. such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. we face continually evolving cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming and motion picture services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal and certain partners' systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users' proprietary and personal information (including third-party and employee data), and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures. although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee or partner error, computer malware or ransomware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, natural or other disasters, terrorist attacks, or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. in addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. while we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our, our partners' or our users' proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and 26 table of contents financial exposure related to damages cause by these risks, the cost of remediation, and liability to third parties for harm caused by unauthorized access to their data, as well as potential liability related to regulatory, consumer or other actions, such as actions related to data collection and other data privacy concerns, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. in addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. our obligations related to guarantees, litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if famous players inc. defaults on certain theater leases. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. we are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. through national amusements' voting control of viacom and cbs, certain directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and national amusements is in a position to control actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval national amusements, directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both viacom and cbs. national amusements owns shares in viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in viacom and approximately 10% of viacom's combined common stock. national amusements is controlled by sumner m. redstone, who is the chairman and chief executive officer of national amusements, through the sumner m. redstone national amusements trust (the smr trust ), which owns shares in national amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of national amusements. shares of national amusements held by the smr trust are voted solely by mr. redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. upon mr. redstone's incapacity or death, (1) shari redstone, who is the non-executive vice chair of viacom and the president and a director of national amusements, will also become a trustee of the smr trust and (2) the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust will be voted by the trustees of the smr trust. the trustees of the smr trust include mr. redstone and 27 table of contents david andelman, a member of the boards of directors of national amusements and cbs. mr. redstone serves as our chairman emeritus and as the chairman emeritus of cbs. ms. redstone, who is mr. redstone's daughter, also serves as the non-executive vice chair of the board of directors of cbs. the national amusements ownership structure and the common directors among national amusements, viacom and cbs could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs. potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and cbs enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, national amusement's voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as national amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than national amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. the interests of national amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, national amusements and cbs, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes, which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, national amusements and cbs are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the united states, among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 55risk factors. 19 risk factors. financial and other information by reportable segment and revenues by geographic area for fiscal years 2017 , 2016 and 2015 are set forth in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. available information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the sec pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, will be available free of charge on our website at www.viacom.com (under investor relations ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with the sec. these documents are also available on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, contains both historical and forward-looking statements. all statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause future results, performance or achievements to differ. these risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in item 1a. risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed 17 table of contents below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. our executive officers the following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who serves as a viacom executive officer. name age position robert m. bakish 53 president and chief executive officer; director christa a. d'alimonte 48 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary wade davis 45 executive vice president, chief financial officer katherine gill-charest 53 senior vice president, controller and chief accounting officer dede lea 53 executive vice president, global government affairs scott mills 49 executive vice president, chief administrative officer information about each of our executive officers is set forth below. robert m. bakish mr. bakish has been our president and chief executive officer, and a member of our board of directors, since december 2016, having served as acting president and chief executive officer beginning november 2016. mr. bakish joined the predecessor of viacom in 1997 and has held leadership positions throughout the organization, including as president and chief executive officer of viacom international media networks and its predecessor company, mtv networks international, from 2007 to 2016. he served as executive vice president, operations and viacom enterprises of viacom's predecessor; as executive vice president and chief operating officer of mtv networks advertising sales; and as senior vice president, planning, development and technology at viacom's predecessor. before joining viacom's predecessor in 1997, mr. bakish was a partner with booz allen &amp; hamilton in its media and entertainment practice. mr. bakish has served as a director of avid technology, inc. since 2009. christa a. d'alimonte ms. d'alimonte has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since april 2017. prior to that, she was senior vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary beginning in november 2012. prior to joining viacom, ms. d'alimonte was a partner of shearman &amp; sterling llp, where she was deputy practice group leader of the firm's global mergers &amp; acquisitions group. she first joined shearman &amp; sterling in 1993 and became a partner in 2001. wade davis mr. davis has been our executive vice president, chief financial officer since november 2012. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, strategy and corporate development beginning in august 2009, as senior vice president, mergers &amp; acquisitions and strategic planning from january 2007 to august 2009 and as senior vice president of mergers &amp; acquisitions beginning january 2006. prior to joining viacom, mr. davis was an investment banker in the technology and media sectors for more than a decade. katherine gill-charest ms. gill-charest has been our senior vice president, controller and chief accounting officer since october 2010. prior to that, she was senior vice president, deputy controller beginning in april 2010 and vice president, deputy controller from may 2007 to april 2010. prior to joining viacom, ms. gill-charest served as chief accounting officer of wpp group usa from november 2005 to may 2007 and as its vice president, group reporting from february 2001 to november 2005. dede lea ms. lea has been our executive vice president, global government affairs since january 2013, having previously served as executive vice president, government relations beginning in november 2005. prior to that, she was senior vice president, government relations of the predecessor of viacom beginning in september 2005. prior to that, she served as vice president of government affairs at belo corp. from 2004 to 2005 and as vice president, government affairs of viacom's predecessor from 1997 to 2004. 18 table of contents scott mills mr. mills has been our executive vice president, chief administrative officer since may 2015. previously, he was executive vice president, human resources and administration beginning in october 2012. prior to that, he was president and chief operating officer of bet networks beginning in july 2007, its president of digital media from august 2006 to july 2007 and its chief financial officer beginning in 2003. he first joined bet networks in 1997, serving as senior vice president of strategy &amp; business development, and served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of bet interactive from 1999 to 2003. mr. mills has served as a director of principal financial group inc. since july 2016. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands and produce popular programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict our ability to maintain attractive brands and generate popular entertainment content, successful tentpole events and consumer-oriented retail and hospitality offerings are key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our ability to satisfy consumer tastes and expectations in a consistent manner. the popularity of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. we invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks, in our motion pictures and in our television production business, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers. in addition, general economic conditions affect our audience's discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content. in our media networks businesses, the popularity of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, and other licensing activities. our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the u.s. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products. as a result, a lack of popularity of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term. new technologies, distribution platforms and packaging, as well as changes in consumer behavior, may negatively affect our viewership, revenue and profitability technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly and new distribution platforms, and increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams. technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content. for example, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements. substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenues. in addition, the evolution of consumer preferences away from linear pay television, away from physical towards digital services, and away from rental and purchased services towards subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or measurement, may continue to have an adverse impact on our revenues. in addition, in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including smaller programming packages known as skinny bundles, which are delivered at lower costs than traditional offerings and sometimes allow the consumer to create a customized package of networks; subscription video-on-demand services; ad-supported, free online video products; and original programming hosted on social media platforms. if these alternative offerings continue to gain traction and our networks are not included in those packages, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional cable subscriptions, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower affiliate and advertising 19 table of contents revenues. these changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse impact on our revenues. the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could cause our revenues to decline, and consolidation among distributors could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability we are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. our affiliate agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including but not limited to those related to pricing and programming tiers. the loss of favorable packaging and positioning, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees. similarly, our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation agreements. as these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights. for example, some of our distribution agreements may contain most favored nation ( mfn ) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes specified terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an mfn right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the mfn right. these clauses are generally complex and may lead to disagreement over interpretation and application of such clause. in addition, disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees, as well as our relationship with that distributor. in addition, consolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage and market power in their relationships with programmers. we currently have agreements in place with the major u.s. cable and satellite operators and this consolidation has affected, and could continue to affect, our ability to maximize the value of our content through those distributors. in addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors that carry our programming, subject our affiliate revenues to greater volume discounts, impact our ability to effectively compete for audiences, advertising revenue, and distribution, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators. all of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. advertising market conditions could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. in addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the company as current advertising methods. deficiencies in audience measurement on various platforms may adversely impact our advertising revenues advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones 20 table of contents and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on our advertising revenues. our new strategic direction may not be effective in achieving our strategic and operating objectives, and our efforts may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition in february 2017, following significant changes in our senior leadership and a comprehensive review of our operations and performance, we announced a new strategy centered on the following initiatives: focusing on six flagship brands, elevating our approach to content and talent, deepening our partnerships to drive new distribution and advertising revenue, extending the reach of our brands in the digital and physical world, and continuing to optimize and energize our organization. we may not be successful in achieving our strategic and operating objectives and generating revenues and operating income, and our efforts to execute our strategic plan may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect the profitability of our business. for example: the reallocation of resources to the six flagship brands, and revamped programming strategies at the brands, may not be effective in generating improved ratings and market share. ongoing efforts to improve relationships with distribution partners may stall or fail to generate sufficient cooperation, leaving us unable to expand our relationships with these parties. steps taken by paramount's new leadership team to revamp upcoming film slates may not lead to the anticipated turnaround in a timely manner. efforts to de-lever our balance sheet to help maintain an investment grade rating may not succeed or yield the anticipated benefits. the success of our business also depends on achieving our inorganic strategic objectives, including through mergers and acquisitions, which may present risks that could impact our operations and earnings. pursuing and completing such acquisition transactions may involve significant time, effort and resources, and there can be no assurance that such transactions will be successfully implemented. service disruptions or failures of, or intrusions upon, the company's or its vendors' networks, information systems and other technologies could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses networks, information systems and other technologies, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures by the company or our third-party vendors ( systems ) are critical to our business activities, and shutdowns or service disruptions of, and intrusions upon, these systems pose increasing risks. such shutdowns, disruptions and intrusions may be caused by third-party hacking of computers and systems; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial of service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. shutdowns, disruptions and intrusions from such events could have an adverse impact on the company, its employees and its audiences, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the company's disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be sufficient to cover everything that could happen. significant events could result in a disruption of the company's operations, reduced revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate the company's businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to the company's reputation or brands. the company may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate it for any losses associated with such events. the company is also subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of data or programming content maintained in the systems of the company or our third-party vendors, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information including intellectual property, or other confidential information. outside parties may attempt to penetrate the company's systems or those of our third-party vendors or fraudulently induce employees, partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data, or our programming. the number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches in the u.s. have increased in recent years. if a material breach of the company's systems or those of our third-party vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of the company's information security measures could be harmed, the company could lose 21 table of contents advertisers as well as users of our online, mobile and app offerings and viewers, and our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged. in addition, if a material breach of the company's systems occurs, the company could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such systems or to comply with notification requirements. the company could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation in the event of a breach of the company's or our third-party vendors' systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, these systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. despite the company's efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content and adversely affect our businesses and profitability the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights in our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the u.s. and europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. the interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. for example, new mobile broadcasting tools enable users to livestream content, including copyrighted content, which can lead to content theft and could have an adverse impact on the monetization of our content. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. increased costs for programming, motion pictures and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our profits in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content, and as part of our business strategy we are reallocating resources to our flagship brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content. the filmed entertainment segment's core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures and television series, the costs of which are significant. we also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent 22 table of contents compensation in connection with these acquired rights. we also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations, and some of these sources are highly consolidated. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. as such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments in programming, motion pictures and other content when the content is broadcast or distributed. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in decreased profitability and the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write-down of the value of the asset. for example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film's initial theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. if we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. the loss of key talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect our revenues our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. our businesses operate in highly competitive industries companies in the cable network, motion picture, digital and consumer product industries depend on the popularity of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), ott distributors, social media content distributors, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and second screen applications. competition also comes from pirated content. increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as apple, facebook, youtube, netflix, amazon and hulu, increases our content costs as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment. in addition, as competition with these entrants for the creation and acquisition of quality programming continues to escalate, the complexity of negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we acquire or retain may increase, leading to increased acquisition costs, and our ability to successfully acquire content of the highest quality may face greater uncertainty. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. more content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent, which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms and distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our motion pictures and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising is highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures is highest in the summer and around holidays. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business and results of operations we use satellite systems, fiber and other methods to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our businesses and harm our financial condition our businesses operate and have customers, partners and audiences worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. for that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions in each market can also impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks by causing them to reduce their spending on advertising, and can impact our audience's discretionary spending. in addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar has increased. such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period. in addition, our businesses are exposed to certain political and economic risks inherent in conducting a global business. these include, among others: changes in the regulatory environment in the markets where we operate, including the imposition of new regulations or changed interpretations of existing regulations, particularly regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, privacy and data protection regulations, exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship; retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in other countries, including in the u.s.; potential for longer payment cycles; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and changes in anti-corruption laws and regulations; 24 table of contents increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties. for example, the formal two-year process governing the uk's departure from the eu ( brexit ) began on march 29, 2017. depending upon the ultimate terms of brexit, the uk could lose access to the single eu market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members. the effects of the brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the uk from the eu may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the uk, the eurozone, the eu and elsewhere and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the euro and the british pound. in addition, brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the eu, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use uk law under country of origin rules for programming in the eu, potential trade barriers between the uk and the eu and between the uk and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. given that a portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the uk, any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. these political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses and harms our financial condition. changes in u.s. or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. for example, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. in addition, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. all of these regulations affect our nickelodeon businesses in particular. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising or reaching their intended audiences could adversely affect advertising revenue. in addition, the u.s. congress, the fcc and certain foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties. our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including operating license requirements, quotas, tax regimes, currency restrictions and data protection regimes. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the u.s., and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. this could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce legal rights and changes in existing laws (or changes in interpretation) by courts and regulators. we could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. we could also incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with new or existing laws or regulations. we could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous international jurisdictions. our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and may be subject to significant change. in addition, our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation or settlements may occur. such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 25 table of contents our obligations related to litigation and joint ventures could adversely impact our financial condition we are involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. we have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. it is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. in addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. through national amusements' voting control of viacom and cbs, certain directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and national amusements is in a position to control actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval national amusements, directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both viacom and cbs. national amusements owns shares in viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in viacom and approximately 10% of viacom's combined common stock. national amusements is controlled by sumner m. redstone, our chairman emeritus, who is the chairman and chief executive officer of national amusements, through the sumner m. redstone national amusements trust (the smr trust ), which owns shares in national amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of national amusements. the shares representing the other 20% of the voting interest of national amusements are held through a trust controlled by shari e. redstone, who is mr. redstone's daughter and the non-executive vice chair of viacom's board of directors and the president and a member of the board of directors of national amusements. the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust are voted solely by mr. redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. upon mr. redstone's incapacity or death, (1) ms. redstone will also become a trustee of the smr trust and (2) the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust will be voted by the trustees of the smr trust. the current trustees include mr. redstone and david r. andelman, a member of the boards of directors of national amusements and cbs. the current board of directors of national amusements includes mr. redstone, ms. redstone and mr. andelman. in addition, mr. redstone serves as chairman emeritus of cbs and ms. redstone serves as non-executive vice chair of cbs. the national amusements ownership structure and the common directors among national amusements, viacom and cbs could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs, or when we and cbs enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs. our certificate of incorporation and the cbs certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to cbs, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. in addition, national amusements' voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as national amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than national amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. the interests of national amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. we, national amusements and cbs, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes, which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, national amusements and cbs are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the u.s., among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the 26 table of contents companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 54risk factors. 22 risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable factors that could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in consumer behavior, as well as new technologies, distribution platforms and packaging, may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly, and new distribution platforms, as well as increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams. technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and have affected the options available to advertisers for reaching their target audiences. for example, the evolution of consumer preferences away from linear pay television, away from physical towards digital services, and away from rental and purchased services towards subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or adequate methodologies for audience measurement, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising-blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements, and substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenue. in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including smaller, often customizable programming packages known as skinny bundles, which are delivered at lower costs than traditional offerings; svod services; ad-supported, free video-on-demand services; and original programming hosted on social media platforms. if these alternative offerings continue to gain traction and our networks and brands are not included in those packages and services, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional cable subscriptions, we may experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower affiliate and advertising revenues. these changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider and from time to time implement changes to our business models and strategies to remain competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully anticipate or respond to these developments, that we will not experience disruption as we respond to the developments, or that the business models we develop will be as profitable as our current business models. our inability to protect and exploit the value of our content, while adapting to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses operate in an industry that is highly competitive and swiftly consolidating companies in the television programming, film, digital, consumer products, live events and recreation businesses depend on the popularity of content and other offerings, appeal to advertisers and widespread distribution of their content. we compete with other media companies to attract creative talent and produce high quality content, and for distribution on a variety of third-party platforms to draw large audiences. competition for talent, content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes 22 table of contents from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), ott distributors, social media platforms, film studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and second screen applications. further, competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as apple, facebook, youtube, netflix, amazon and hulu, continues to increase. our ability to obtain widespread distribution on favorable terms, which contributes to our ability to attract audiences and, in turn, advertisers, is adversely affected by the consolidation of programmers, distributors (including telecom companies) and television service providers. this consolidation reduces the number of distributors with whom we negotiate and increases the negotiating leverage and market power of the combined companies. in addition, consolidation in the film business may adversely affect the distribution of our films on various platforms. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks business generally relies on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers, telecom companies and other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information, as well as significant financial resources. this competition and consolidation could result in lower ratings and advertising, lower affiliate and other revenues, and increased content costs and promotional and other expenses, negatively affecting revenue and profitability for us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition or consolidation in the marketplace will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands and produce popular programming, films and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict our ability to maintain attractive brands and generate popular entertainment content, successful tentpole events and consumer products, recreation and live events offerings are key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, films and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our ability to satisfy consumer tastes and expectations in a consistent manner. the popularity of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. we invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks, in our films and in our television production business, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers. in our media networks business, the popularity of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, and other licensing activities. our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the u.s. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a film affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products. as a result, a lack of popularity of our offerings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term. our advertising revenues have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by declines in linear television viewing, deficiencies in audience measurement and advertising market conditions we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in any given period. consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, and an increasing number of companies offer svod services, including some that offer exclusive high-quality original video programming and programming delivered directly to consumers over the internet. the increasing number of entertainment choices available to consumers has intensified audience fragmentation and reduced the viewing of content through traditional and virtual multichannel video providers, which has caused, and likely will continue to cause, audience ratings declines for our cable networks and may adversely affect the pricing and volume of advertising. 23 table of contents in addition, advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the statistical sampling methods used. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods, including the number of impressions served and demographics. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on our advertising revenues. the strength of the advertising market can also fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to us as current advertising methods. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of distributors, the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations a significant portion of our revenues are attributable to agreements with a limited number of cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. our affiliation agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including but not limited to those related to pricing and programming tiers. we may also be unable to modify existing agreements with terms that have over time become less favorable. the loss of favorable packaging and positioning, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor, or renew or modify them on favorable terms, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees. similarly, our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation agreements. as these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation with respect to our rights and obligations. for example, some of our distribution agreements contain most favored nation ( mfn ) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes specified terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an mfn right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the mfn right. these clauses are generally complex and may lead to disagreement over interpretation and application of such clause. disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees, as well as our relationship with that distributor. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. service disruptions or failures of, or cybersecurity attacks upon, our or our vendors' networks, information systems and other technologies could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business or personal information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses networks, information systems and other technologies, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films by us or our third-party vendors ( systems ), are critical to our business activities, and shutdowns or service disruptions of, and cybersecurity attacks upon, these systems pose increasing risks. such shutdowns, disruptions and attacks may be caused by third-party hacking of computers and systems; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial of service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. shutdowns, 24 table of contents disruptions and attacks from such events could have an adverse impact on us, our business partners, our employees, our audiences and users of our online, mobile and app offerings, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be sufficient to cover everything that could happen. significant events could result in a disruption of our operations, reduced revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate our businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to our reputation or brands. we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any losses associated with such events. we are also subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of business or personal data or programming content maintained in our or our third-party vendors' systems, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information including intellectual property, or other confidential information. outside parties may attempt to penetrate our systems or those of our third-party vendors or fraudulently induce employees, business partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data, or our programming. the number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches in the u.s. and elsewhere have increased in recent years. if a material breach of our systems or those of our third-party vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our information security measures could be harmed, we could lose advertisers and other business partners as well as users of our online, mobile and app offerings and viewers, and our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged. in addition, if a material breach of our systems occurs, we could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such systems or to comply with notification requirements. we could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation in the event of a breach of our or our third-party vendors' systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, these systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. despite our efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated. each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations we use satellite systems, fiber and other methods to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming, and if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. there can be no assurance that such failure or disruption would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, may decrease revenue received from our programming, films and other entertainment content and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights in our entertainment content. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, films and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the u.s. and europe and/or lack effective enforcement of such measures. such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. the interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. 25 table of contents content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. in addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the continuing proliferation of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. for example, non-browser-based content theft through internet-connected televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices continues to increase and includes illegal re-transmission platforms, ott subscription services, illicit video-on-demand/streaming services and pre-loaded hardware, providing more accessible, versatile and legitimate-looking environments for consuming pirated film and television content. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of films or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming and our ability to monetize our content. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's and some affiliate partners' perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content. while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased costs for programming, films and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content, and as part of our business strategy we invest significant resources in our flagship brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content. in our filmed entertainment business, we invest significant amounts in the production, marketing and distribution of films and television series. we also acquire programming, films and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. we also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations, and some of these sources are highly consolidated. our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. competition for popular content is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay for talent and intellectual property rights, which may result in significantly increased costs. as such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments in programming, films and other content when the content is broadcast or distributed. further, increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as apple, facebook, youtube, netflix, amazon and hulu, increases our content costs as they introduce different ways of compensating talent and approaching production. in addition, as competition with these entrants for the creation and acquisition of quality programming continues to escalate, the complexity of negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we aim to acquire may increase, leading to increased acquisition costs, and our ability to successfully acquire content of the highest quality may face greater uncertainty. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, films and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or film. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in decreased profitability and the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write-down of the value of the asset. we estimate the ultimate revenues of a film before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film's initial theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. if we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 table of contents the loss of key talent could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce films with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, films and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations our businesses operate and have customers, partners and audiences worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. for that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions in each market can also impact our audience's discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content, as well as the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks, causing them to reduce their spending on advertising. in addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar (compared to, for example, the argentinian peso, the british pound and the euro, among others) has increased. such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period. in addition, our businesses are exposed to certain political and economic risks inherent in conducting a global business. these include, among others retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in other countries, including in the u.s.; potential for longer payment cycles; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other political, economic or other uncertainties. the formal two-year process governing the uk's departure from the eu ( brexit ) began on march 29, 2017. depending upon the ultimate terms of brexit, the uk could lose access to the single eu market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members. the effects of the brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the uk from the eu may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the uk, the eurozone, the eu and elsewhere and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the euro and the british pound. in addition, brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the eu, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use uk law under country of origin rules for programming in the eu, potential trade barriers between the uk and the eu and between the uk and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. given that a portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the uk, any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. these political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. changes in u.s. or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations our program services, filmed entertainment and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection, anti-corruption, repatriation of profits, tax regimes, quotas, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, operating license and permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, and exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship, among others. 27 table of contents laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the u.s., and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations of our businesses. our nickelodeon business in particular is subject to a number of regulations regarding children. for example, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. in addition, federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising or reaching their intended audiences could adversely affect advertising revenue. our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which has implications for how such data is managed. for example, gdpr expands the regulation of personal data processing throughout the eu and significantly increases penalties for non-compliance. complying with these laws and regulations could be costly, require us to change our business practices, or limit or restrict aspects of our business in a manner adverse to our business operations. many of these laws and regulations continue to evolve, and substantial uncertainty surrounds their scope and application. our failure to comply could result in exposure to enforcement by u.s. or foreign governments, as well as significant negative publicity and reputational damage. our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws by courts and regulators and the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce our legal rights. we could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. we could also incur substantial costs to comply with new and existing laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. we could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous international jurisdictions. our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in the federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and these rates may be subject to significant change. our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation, adverse outcomes, or settlements may occur because tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, including our methodologies for intercompany arrangements. further, the tax cuts and jobs act (the act ), which was enacted in december 2017, may expose us to tax risks as a result of the on-going issuance of interpretive guidance issued by the u.s. treasury department, the internal revenue service and other standard-setting bodies as to how provisions of the act are to be applied which could be different from our current interpretations. such changes, litigation, adverse outcomes, or audit settlements may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. volatility and weakness in capital markets may adversely affect our credit availability and related financing costs bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. if the disruption in these markets is prolonged, our ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of our debt could be adversely affected. although we can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for us. in addition, our access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by our short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. these factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in our debt ratings, could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost effective financing. our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services and technologies through acquisitions and other strategic initiatives present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we had contemplated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations we have acquired and invested, and expect to continue to acquire and invest, in new businesses, products, services and technologies as part of our ongoing efforts to transition to next-generation platforms and solutions and diversify beyond our core business. such acquisitions and strategic initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management attention from current operations; insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities 28 table of contents assumed and expenses associated with the new investments; failure to achieve projected synergies, cost savings or cash flow from acquired businesses, which are based on projections that are inherently uncertain; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and systems of acquired businesses and, in the case of foreign acquisitions, integrating operations across different cultures and languages and addressing the particular currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired businesses; and a failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology. because new investments are inherently risky, and the anticipated benefits or value of these investments may not materialize, no assurance can be given that such investments and other strategic alternatives will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. in addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our films and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical films, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of films, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising is highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from films is highest in the summer. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. through national amusements' voting control of viacom and cbs, certain directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and national amusements is in a position to control actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval national amusements, directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both viacom and cbs. national amusements owns shares in viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in viacom and approximately 10% of viacom's combined common stock. national amusements is controlled by sumner m. redstone, our chairman emeritus, who is the chairman and chief executive officer of national amusements, through the sumner m. redstone national amusements trust (the smr trust ), which owns shares in national amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of national amusements. the shares representing the other 20% of the voting interest of national amusements are held through a trust controlled by shari e. redstone, who is mr. redstone's daughter, the non-executive vice chair of viacom's board of directors, the non-executive vice chair of cbs's board of directors, and the president and a member of the board of directors of national amusements. the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust are voted solely by mr. redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. upon mr. redstone's incapacity or death, ms. redstone will also become a trustee of the smr trust and the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust will be voted by the trustees of the smr trust. the current trustees include mr. redstone and david r. andelman, both of whom are also members of the board of directors of national amusements. in addition, mr. redstone serves as chairman emeritus of cbs. the national amusements ownership structure and the common directors among national amusements, viacom and cbs could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs, or when we and cbs enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs. 29 table of contents in addition, national amusements' voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, stockholder-proposed amendments to our bylaws, and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as national amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than national amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. the interests of national amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. our certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us our certificate of incorporation and the certificate of incorporation of cbs both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both us and to cbs. our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of viacom who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to viacom or cbs or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties, and shall not be liable, to viacom or its stockholders. in addition, viacom's certificate of incorporation provides that viacom renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs. these provisions create the possibility that cbs could have access to corporate opportunities from which viacom could benefit in addition to, or instead of, cbs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we, national amusements and cbs, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes, which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, national amusements and cbs are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the u.s., among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs, or may impose additional costs on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 57risk factors. 22 risk factors. in connection with the proposed merger, cbs filed a registration statement on form s-4 with the sec that includes a joint consent solicitation statement of cbs and viacom, constitutes a prospectus of cbs, and was declared effective on october 25, 2019. we were organized as a delaware corporation in 2005 in connection with our earlier separation from cbs, which was effective january 1, 2006. our principal offices are located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york 10036. our telephone number is (212) 258-6000 and our website is www.viacom.com. information included on or accessible through our website is not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. references in this document to viacom, company, we, us and our mean viacom inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. 2 table of contents media networks overview our media networks segment provides entertainment content, services and related branded products for consumers in targeted demographics attractive to advertisers, content distributors and retailers. we create, acquire, distribute and sell programming and other content for our audiences worldwide, distributed through cable, satellite and broadband services, on linear, streaming, on-demand and transactional bases, for viewing on a wide range of devices such as televisions, pcs, tablets, smartphones and other connected devices. the media networks segment also includes pluto tv tm , the leading free streaming tv platform in the u.s. the media networks segment also delivers advertising and marketing services, including those under our advanced marketing solutions portfolio, which both utilizes advanced addressable video inventory to allow dynamic ad insertion and advanced targeting, and provides our marketing partners with a variety of consulting and creative services and associated activations. the media networks segment also licenses its brands and properties for consumer products and recreation experiences, produces live events and creates original programming for third-party distributors. globally, our media networks segment reaches approximately 4.3 billion cumulative television subscribers in more than 180 countries and 45 languages, via 320 locally programmed and operated television channels, including our multimedia brands nickelodeon , mtv , bet , comedy central , paramount network , nick jr. , vh1 , tv land , cmt and logo . outside of the united states (the u.s. ), vimn operates the international extensions of our multimedia brands and our program services created specifically for international audiences, such as public service broadcaster ( psb ) channel 5 and milkshake! in the united kingdom ( uk ), televisi n federal s.a., or telefe , in argentina, colors in india and paramount channel in various countries. cumulative television subscribers is an aggregation of the total subscribers to (or viewers of, in the case of our free-to-air channels) each viacom owned-and-operated, joint venture and licensee channel (and does not include users of pluto tv). through vds and its international extension, viacom digital studios international ( vdsi ), we produce original content for consumption across the leading social platforms to build loyalty for, and engagement with, our flagship brands. our cross-viacom studio production business is a global network of production studios producing premium episodic and film content across both our owned and operated platforms and for third parties. domestically, this business is driven by paramount television, awesomeness, nickelodeon, mtv and comedy central and utilizes our considerable intellectual property library to create long-form episodic content for third-party platforms. internationally, the business is driven by vis. our media networks brands also develop and operate an extensive portfolio of online, mobile and over-the-top ( ott ) experiences, including tv everywhere and subscription apps that offer audiences long and short-form video content, games and interactive features, across shows, events, news, music, community, culture and, for our younger audiences, educational and learning activities. examples include noggin, nickelodeon's advertising-free, direct-to-consumer, ott preschool video subscription service, and bet+, an online svod service focused on black audiences and consumers of black culture. pluto tv in march 2019, we acquired pluto tv tm , the leading free streaming tv platform in the u.s. pluto tv expands our presence across next-generation distribution platforms and accelerates the growth of our ams business. pluto tv is available across mobile devices, desktops, streaming players and game consoles and is integrated across a growing number of smart tvs and other video and broadband platforms. with approximately 20 million monthly active users in the u.s., the majority of whom are on connected tvs, and over 165 content partners, pluto tv offers over 200 live linear channels, thousands of hours of on-demand content, including movies, news, sports, general entertainment, african american, kids and digital series. in july 2019, we launched pluto tv latino, a suite of 22 channels streaming over 4,000 hours of programming in spanish and portuguese, including hit tv series and movies, sports, reality, lifestyle and more. in addition, pluto tv is available in the uk, germany, austria and switzerland, and plans to expand to latin america and additional territories early in calendar 2020. 3 table of contents media networks brands our most significant media networks brands are discussed below. unless otherwise indicated, the domestic cumulative television subscriber numbers are according to nielsen company (us), llc ( nielsen ) and the international reach statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. nickelodeon, now in its 40 th year, is a diverse, global business and a recognized leader in kids and family entertainment. nickelodeon has been the number-one-rated ad-supported basic cable network for 24 consecutive years among kids 2 to 12, featuring leading original and licensed series for kids across animation, live-action and preschool genres. nickelodeon produces and distributes programming worldwide. during the evening and overnight hours, nick at nite airs on the same linear cable channel on which nickelodeon airs during the daytime, and features licensed contemporary family comedies, such as friends , mom , the king of queens and full house . nick jr. seeks to entertain and educate preschoolers, providing kids an opportunity to engage with characters they love while building their imaginations, gaining key cognitive and social-emotional skills and learning about the world around them. teennick appeals to kids ages 6 to 11 and features nickelodeon original live action hits, signature originals and nick rewind, a programming block targeting millennials with iconic nick library content from the 1990s; nicktoons is a leading cartoon destination for kids featuring signature franchises; and nick music is a 24-hour music video destination featuring a nickelodeon-curated lineup from breakout artists and hit-makers. nickelodeon is a key part of viacom's global consumer products licensing business and also licenses its brands for recreation experiences such as hotels and theme parks, as well as live tours. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included ryan's mystery playdate ; spongebob's big birthday blowout , which kicked off the 20th anniversary celebration of one of tv's most iconic characters; new animated series butterbean's caf and abby hatcher ; the revival of are you smarter than a 5 th grader? , with new host john cena; returning hits paw patrol , blaze and the monster machines , shimmer and shine, the loud house, henry danger and bubble guppies ; and tentpole events such as kids' choice awards and kids' choice sports . internationally, we have introduced new content models that have led to nickelodeon's first internationally originated, globally distributed, non-preschool, animated program it's pony ; our first chinese-originated, animated program deer squad ; and a second season of the telenovela noobees , a co-production between vis and mediapro. noggin is nickelodeon's advertising-free, direct-to-consumer, ott preschool video subscription service, featuring over 1,000 full-length library episodes, plus interactive play-along videos and short-form educational content. noggin is part of amazon's prime video channels lineup and, in june 2019, launched a new user interface and added games. in fiscal year 2019, nickelodeon launched jojo siwa's d.r.e.a.m. the tour , a multi-city live concert tour with stops across the u.s. other live and location-based experiences include its slimefest music festival in chicago, il and slimefest activations in germany, the philippines, the uk, italy and australia; slimecity , an interactive pop-up experience in atlanta, ga; multiple paw patrol live tours around the world; the first-ever kids' choice awards in abu dhabi, with additional local versions in germany, mexico and brazil. nickelodeon movies continues to deepen its partnership with paramount, working together to develop a slate of branded films based on some of nick's most iconic franchises and characters. in august 2019, paramount players tm released dora and the lost city of gold , a live-action adaption of the classic nickelodeon series dora the explorer . in september 2019, nickelodeon's channel portfolio reached approximately 1.1 billion cumulative television subscribers in 179 countries worldwide, excluding branded programming blocks. 4 table of contents mtv is the leading global youth media brand, reaching approximately 1 billion cumulative television subscribers in 180 countries and nearly 30 different languages across every platform. mtv operations span cable and mobile networks, live events, theatrical films and mtv studios. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included new series launches the hills: new beginnings and double shot at love with dj pauly d and vinny. returning favorites included teen mom , teen mom 2 , teen mom og , mtv floribama shore , ridiculousness , wild n out , are you the one? , siesta key , the challenge franchise and jersey shore: family vacation . the signature mtv hit jersey shore format has been adapted for our international audiences, with multiple versions around the world, including as geordie shore in the uk (now in its 19 th season) and acapulco shore in mexico. are you the one? has been adapted by mtv's local channels in brazil and mexico. we also import our international programming formats to the u.s., such as ex on the beach , which originated in the uk and has become a global franchise with 14 local adaptations airing worldwide, and have expanded our music franchises yo! mtv raps and mtv unplugged internationally. mtv's signature programming event is the mtv video music awards , which in 2019 drew 5.5 million viewers across its live linear simulcast and 269 million video views from the launch of the vma website through the day of the show. mtv's additional annual tentpole programming events included the mtv european music awards , mtv movie and tv awards , mtv miaws (celebrating the best in latin music and the digital world of the millennial generation) and mtv fandom awards . in july 2019, mtv hosted its 13 th annual isle of mtv malta concert and malta music week events. mtv2 is a young, diverse male targeted network featuring long-form acquired scripted and reality programming. mtv live offers a robust selection of music performances featuring long and short-form programming from emerging to classic artists, performing a variety of genres from pop to rock, to hip-hop and edm. additionally, mtv live features music video blocks spotlighting today's top artists. mtv classic is a 24/7 music video channel that features the best music videos from the 80s, 90s, and early 00s across all genres. blocks are separated both by genre across all decades and by decades across all genres. bet is a leading consumer brand in the urban marketplace, and the nation's leading provider of entertainment, music, news and public affairs programming to african american audiences. bet play, a direct-to-consumer ott offering for adults, provides hundreds of hours of content, including bet original series, awards shows, stand-up comedy, reality shows and documentaries . bet her is the first network designed for black women, reflecting the lifestyle of today's african american and multicultural adult viewer and delivering a wide variety of culturally relevant programming; bet gospel features gospel music and spiritual programming; and bet hip hop spotlights hip hop music programming and performances. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included new series launches american soul , boomerang and blackish , and returning favorites such as martin , house of payne and meet the browns . bet's tentpoles and live events in 2019 included the seventh annual bet experience , bet's weekend-long celebration of music, entertainment and black culture and featured the 2019 bet awards , which aired as the number one cable awards show for the fifth consecutive year among adults 18 to 49 with more than 12.7 million total viewers tuning in across eight viacom networks; black girls rock ; bet hip hop awards ; the second annual bet social awards ; and soul train awards . bet's programming received seven naacp image awards nominations and two wins in fiscal year 2019. 5 table of contents bet has a comprehensive, multi-year content partnership with award-winning writer, director, producer, actor and playwright tyler perry, that extends through 2024 and encompasses television, film and short-form video. in october 2019, the oval and sistas premiered, the first two series in the multi-year partnership. in september 2019, bet networks and tyler perry studios launched bet+, an online svod service focused on black audiences and consumers of black culture. bet+ features more than 1,000 hours of advertising-free premium content, including new, exclusive programming, iconic tv series, movies, and documentaries and specials from bet and other networks in the viacom portfolio. it offers original programming from tyler perry and is home to exclusive series and other content from leading black content creators. in september 2019, bet's channel portfolio reached approximately 207 million cumulative television subscribers in 77 countries worldwide. comedy central is a leading destination for comedic talent and all things comedy, providing viewers access to a world of funny, provocative and relevant comedy, ranging from award-winning late-night, scripted and animated series, to stand-up specials, short-form and sketch. connecting with comedy fans through multiple touchpoints, comedy central also produces nationwide stand-up events and festivals, operates a grammy award-winning record label (comedy central records), produces a global podcast network and operates comedy central radio on siriusxm. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included the launch of south side , the network's highest-rated series premiere since 2012 among african americans 18 to 49; returning hits the daily show with trevor noah , drunk history and digital original hack into broad city , each of which received several emmy nominations for outstanding series in their respective categories in 2019, as well as broad city , tosh.0 , the jim jeffries show and south park , which was renewed in september 2019 for three additional seasons; the premieres of the critically-acclaimed scripted series the other two and sketch comedy alternatino with arturo castro ; the return of fan favorite crank yankers (comedy central's highest-rated series premiere since 2014 among adults 18 to 49), and pop culture late night newcomer lights out with david spade ; and the comedy central roast of alec baldwin . in may 2019, comedy central launched comedy central productions, a new studio-production arm partnering with comedy's best writers, producers and on-screen talent to develop compelling, premium comedy content and bring it to market via distribution partners and buyers on all tv and digital platforms. in june 2019, comedy central hosted its third annual clusterfest , a three-day festival in san francisco featuring an unprecedented mix of world-class standup comedy, live music and experiential activities. internationally, comedy central hosted the experiential event friendsfest in the uk, spain and poland, as well as comedy central fest in mexico city and brazil. under our strategic partnership with trevor noah's production company, day zero productions, we have exclusive first-look rights on all projects developed by trevor noah and day zero productions in all media, including television, feature films, digital and short-form video content. day zero productions has several projects in development, including the feature film adaptation of born a crime: stories from a south african childhood , which will be released by paramount players and star academy award winner lupita nyong'o. the partnership recently sold its first project to quibi. in september 2019, comedy central reached approximately 390 million cumulative television subscribers in 145 countries worldwide. 6 table of contents paramount network is a premium entertainment destination targeting adults 18 to 49 with bold original scripted and non-scripted series. inspired by over a century of cinema, paramount network brings the experience of the big screen to every screen with stories that are immersive, inclusive and deeply personal. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included yellowstone , a drama starring kevin costner and written and directed by critically-acclaimed screenwriter taylor sheridan, which in its second season was cable's most-watched scripted cable series of the summer with more than 62 million social views and an average of 5 million weekly linear viewers. the network also featured the premiere of competition series the last cowboy , a reboot of the iconic wife swap and i am patrick swayze , the most-watched episode of the network's i am documentary series; and new episodes of ink master , bar rescue, bellator mma and the multi-platform global hit lip sync battle . paramount network's programming line-up in fiscal year 2020 is expected to include 68 whiskey , from ron howard and brian grazer's imagine entertainment; coyote, from michelle maclaren and starring michael chiklis; emily in paris , from darren star and starring lily collins; and a prequel to the critically-acclaimed and award-winning feature film sexy beast . in september 2019, paramount network reached approximately 77 million cumulative television subscribers in the u.s. in addition, paramount network is also available free-to-air in italy, spain and the uk and on basic cable television in sweden and denmark. vds produces mobile-first content for consumption across the leading social platforms to build loyalty for, and engagement with, our flagship brands. under vds, awesomeness creates programming for various social and svod platforms and produces premium original series and films through its emmy -winning dedicated television and film studios. awesomeness' portfolio is strengthened by a branded content sales team, a creator network, a creative agency and a roster of talent relationships. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included original content such as comedy central's mini mocks, mtv's no filter: tana turns 21 , nickelodeon's annie vs. hayley and bet's black coffee . at awesomeness, highlights included pen15 , which was nominated for a 2019 emmy for outstanding writing for a comedy series, season two of light as a feather on hulu, and the perfect date and trinkets on netflix. awesomeness's fiscal year 2020 slate is expected to include season two of pen15 and two sequels to to all the boys i've loved before , which according to netflix was one of its most viewed original films with strong repeat viewing. in the quarter ended september 30, 2019, vds drove year-over-year increases in viacom's aggregate number of social video views and minutes viewed by 38% and 75%, respectively, across all of our domestic social accounts. this growth led viacom to reach number five on the tubular media and entertainment index for september 2019. vdsi creates, distributes and monetizes digital content for our flagship brands outside of the u.s. vdsi has three production hubs, in new york city, buenos aires and london. vidcon, an innovative conference and festival celebrating online video, drives additional growth at vds and our live events business. in june 2019, we hosted the 10 th annual vidcon us. the flagship event drew attendance of over 75,000 attendees and participation from an extensive array of online video platforms, creators, fans, industry 7 table of contents executives and brands. we held the second annual vidcon london in february 2019 and the third annual vidcon australia in september 2019, and vidcon continues to grow internationally with the recently announced first ever vidcon asia and vidcon mexico city in fiscal year 2020. vh1 is a leading pop culture brand for adults 18 to 49 with an array of digital channels and services, including the vh1 app, vh1.com and @vh1. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included the critically-acclaimed original series rupaul's drag race, which received 14 emmy nominations and won four, including outstanding competition program and outstanding host; new series girls' cruise with lil' kim; and returning hits love &amp; hip hop, black ink crew and basketball wives. in september 2019, the vh1 portfolio reached approximately 271 million cumulative television subscribers in 108 countries worldwide. tv land features a mix of original programming, classic and contemporary television shows and specials that appeal to adults aged 25 to 54. the channel is split into two dayparts tv land classic airs during weekdays with beloved series like m*a*s*h* , and tv land airs in the evening hours and on weekends, focusing on content that appeals to adults aged 40 and older. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included the sixth season of darren star's hit original series younger , which was the number one rated ad-supported cable original sitcom among female viewers 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 for the third consecutive year, registered series high viewership during its sixth season; the final season of teachers ; and popular comedies king of queens , everybody loves raymond , two and a half men and the golden girls . in september 2019, tv land reached approximately 80 million cumulative television subscribers, airing only in the u.s. cmt is a leading country music and lifestyle destination, offering a mix of original series, music events and specials. cmt has two linear channels (cmt and the 24-hour music channel, cmt music), as well as a presence on radio (cmt radio), digital (cmt.com) and social (cmt on facebook, cmt on instagram and cmt on twitter). programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included the launch of racing wives ; returning favorite dallas cowboys cheerleaders ; and tentpole events and music programming such as the cmt music awards , cmt artists of the year , cmt hot 20 countdown and cmt crossroads . in september 2019, cmt reached approximately 96 million cumulative television subscribers in five countries worldwide. 8 table of contents logo is a leading entertainment brand inspired by the lgbtq community. logo features one-of-a-kind personalities, shows, specials and unique stories. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included logo documentary films fourth emmy win for quiet heroes , the story of dr. kristin ries' fight to provide care in utah's socially conservative, religious monoculture during the aids crisis. in september 2019, logo reached approximately 39 million cumulative television subscribers, airing only in the u.s. channel 5, a free-to-air psb in the uk, and its affiliated channels air a broad mix of popular content, including factual programming, entertainment, reality, sports, acquired and original drama, and preschool programming through its award-winning milkshake! brand. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included new dramas 15 days , blood and agatha and the truth of murder ; documentaries including rts programme award winner the abused and suicidal: in our own words ; critically acclaimed factual shows such as critical condition and warship: life at sea ; and current affairs programming including jeremy vine and paxman: why are our politicians so crap? in september 2019, channel 5 reached approximately 181 million cumulative television subscribers in the uk. telefe is a leading free-to-air channel and one of the biggest content producers in argentina, with 11 studios and more than 3,500 hours of content produced each year. telefe studios co-produced four films in fiscal year 2019. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included la voz argentina (a local version of the voice ), por el mundo, 100 d as para enamorarse , ph: podemos hablar , peque a victoria , quien quiere ser millonario (local version of who wants to be a millionaire ), el precio justo (local version of the price is right ), susana gimenez and minuto para ganar (local version of minute to win it ). in september 2019, telefe reached approximately 28 million cumulative television subscribers in 22 countries worldwide. 9 table of contents paramount channel is a 24-hour movie channel featuring classic and contemporary films from the paramount library and other hollywood studios as well as domestic and international television series. paramount channel is available in france, hungary, russia, romania, poland, various countries in south east asia and various latin american countries, including brazil, mexico, chile and argentina. in september 2019, paramount channel reached approximately 118 million cumulative television subscribers in 112 countries worldwide. paramount+ is an advertising-free, premium video-on-demand service, featuring films from paramount pictures and hundreds of television episodes from viacom's library. available as an authenticated service or to customers of select subscription service providers, as of september 2019, paramount+ was available in sweden, denmark, norway, finland, hungary, poland, mexico and brazil. colors is a highly-rated hindi-language general entertainment pay television channel operated by our viacom18 joint venture in india. colors is available in india and over 130 additional countries, including the u.s., canada, the uk, parts of europe, the middle east and north africa, asia pacific and south-east asia. colors is available in the u.s. as aapka colors. the colors brand is also extended to the english language through colors infinity, an english general entertainment channel, six indian regional languages and two hindi channels, colors rishtey and colors cineplex in the entertainment and movie space, respectively. viacom18 also owns and operates voot, a digital advertising based video-on-demand platform featuring original television content and children's programming, as well as content from mtv, nickelodeon and colors. programming highlights in fiscal year 2019 included the first season of dance deewane , a dance reality show; returning seasons of bigg boss , fear factor: khatron ke khiladi , naagin , rising star (india's first-ever live singing reality show) and india's got talent ; the 19 th edition of the international indian film academy (iifa) awards, bollywood's biggest awards extravaganza, and khoob ladi mardaani-jhansi ki rani and dastaan-e-mohabbat - salim anarkali . viacom18 studios, viacom18's filmed entertainment business, includes viacom18 motion pictures, a fully-integrated motion pictures studio, and tipping point, a digital content unit. in fiscal year 2019, viacom18 motion pictures delivered critically and commercially successful films, including andhadhun , jalebi, baazaar , ani kashinath ghanekar , bhai 1 and 2 , thackeray , kodathi samaksham balan vakil , romeo akbar walter (r.a.w.) , kaagar, manmadhudu 2 and nikka zaildar 3 . viacom18 motion pictures also partners with paramount to market and distribute paramount films for theatrical exhibition in the indian sub-continent. 10 table of contents in september 2019, colors and colors rishtey reached approximately 557 million cumulative television subscribers in 130 countries worldwide. media networks revenues our media networks segment generates revenues in three categories: (i) the sale of advertising and marketing services, (ii) affiliate fees from distributors of our programming and program services and (iii) consumer products, recreation and live events. in fiscal year 2019 , advertising revenues, affiliate revenues and consumer products, recreation and live events revenues were approximately 47% , 49% and 4% , respectively, of total revenues for the media networks segment. revenues from the media networks segment accounted for 77% , 77% and 76% of our revenues for the fiscal years 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, after the elimination of intercompany revenues. during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we changed our presentation of revenues by component to better align the revenue classification to the inherent nature of the underlying revenue transactions. amounts previously reported as ancillary revenues in media networks were renamed to consumer products, recreation and live events. further, certain components of media networks revenue, including syndication and download-to-own revenues, previously reported within ancillary revenues were reclassified to affiliate revenues. prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current presentation. advertising revenues our media networks segment generates revenues from the sale of advertising and from marketing services. our advertising revenues generally depend on the number of viewers and viewership demographics. demand and pricing for our advertising depend on the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers, viewership and overall market conditions. ratings and demographic information for advertising purposes are determined by third-party research companies such as nielsen and comscore, sometimes also including third- and first-party data. our media networks brands appeal to various key audiences attractive to advertisers. for example, mtv appeals to young adults, nickelodeon appeals to kids and their families and bet appeals to african american audiences. we also drive additional demand for our advertising services through integrated sales of multi-platform advertising and marketing opportunities and through our integrated marketing services, providing unique branded content and custom sponsorship opportunities to our advertisers. domestically, we sell a certain amount of our advertising inventory in advance each year in the upfront market, and other inventory in the scatter market closer to the time a program airs. upfront sales and pricing for each new cable broadcast year are largely established in our third fiscal quarter and reflected in advertising revenue principally beginning in the first quarter of our subsequent fiscal year as marketing plans are finalized and orders are fulfilled to deliver advertising across various programs and dayparts. pricing for advertising within our programming is generally established based on projected impression delivery, which may be guaranteed on a fixed price per impression unit basis. for advertising sold based on impression guarantees, audience deficiency may result in an obligation to deliver subsequent additional units, thereby reducing inventory available for scatter sales. scatter advertising is sold throughout the year at pricing reflecting market conditions at the time of sale and customization of services delivered. most scatter advertising is sold based on impression guarantees. to the extent we do not satisfy contracted impression delivery, we record deferred revenue until such time that the impression guarantee has been satisfied. internationally, advertising markets vary by jurisdiction; however, we do not typically sell our inventory in advance in an upfront market. the majority of our international inventory is sold in the equivalent of the u.s. scatter market, and in a number of markets, we are represented by third-party sales houses. the terms of these relationships vary. for example, in the uk, which is our largest market outside the u.s., we are represented by a third party to whom we sell the inventory on our television channels in the form of commercial impacts at a price calculated in accordance with a pre-arranged pricing metric, and the third party then resells those impacts to uk agencies and advertisers. in argentina, our inventory is sold to advertisers either directly or through advertising agencies. 11 table of contents we continue to expand our product offerings to enable our customers and partners to better target and more broadly activate their advertising campaigns through our advanced marketing solutions portfolio, which consists of two main categories - addressable video and brand solutions. addressable video consists of pools of inventory that we are aggregating and enabling within both mvpd and ott environments, to allow for advanced targeting to fulfill the demand for next generation video ad products. this inventory generally resides in (1) our owned and operated websites and apps, which are distributed either on a stand-alone basis, or via connected device platforms such as roku, amazon fire or apple tv; (2) mvpd apps, which are controlled by our distribution partners, who license viacom content into their platforms and grant us ad insertion rights; or (3) advanced set top boxes, where addressable units are trafficked through the set-top box infrastructure against video-on-demand and live linear television feeds. our addressable inventory supply was recently bolstered by our acquisition of pluto tv in march 2019. pluto tv currently has approximately 20 million monthly active users in the u.s., the majority of whom are on connected tvs, and distribution across an array of platform partnerships, including roku, amazon, comcast, at&amp;t, samsung and vizio. our viacom vantage platform combines data from multiple sources, which may include both first- and third-party data, in a predictive environment to deliver enhanced consumer targeting and campaign measurement. brand solutions consists of a bundle of consulting, creative services, and media activation, under four different product types: (1) influencer marketing, an end-to-end creative product distributed across social platforms and optimized for the mobile platform, which we take to market under the recently acquired whosay brand; (2) shopper marketing, which leverages viacom's intellectual property and extends reach to physical stores, providing viacom access to trade and promotion budgets; (3) branded programming, which offers advertisers a range of executions, from off the shelf sponsorship of our digital-first productions, to custom content, sometimes taking the form of an original custom series underwritten by an advertiser; and (4) experiential, which began with the bet experience and has now grown to include several other properties including comedy central's clusterfest , nickelodeon's slimefest and vidcon. our consortium with fox networks group, nbcu and univision - openap - is the television industry's first open platform for cross-publisher audience targeting. openap enables advertisers and agencies to define and customize the audiences they want to reach beyond traditional age/gender segments, across member networks, with consistent standards of measurement and independent third-party posting for advertising campaigns. our advertising revenues may be affected by the strength of advertising markets and general economic conditions, and may fluctuate depending on the success of our programming, as measured by viewership, at any given time. measured viewership may vary based on the success of our programming (due to, among other things, the timing of new episodes related to our popular programming and the performance of competing programs and other entertainment alternatives), the platforms on which our programming is available, and variations related to the methods used by third parties to measure viewership. advertising revenues may also fluctuate due to the timing of holidays and significant programming events such as awards shows and premieres. typically, advertising revenues are highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year. affiliate revenues our affiliate revenues are generated through fees from distributors of our programming and program services, such as cable television operators, direct-to-home satellite television operators and mobile networks. we also license our content through television, svod and other ott distributors, syndication and transactional video-on-demand ( tvod ). our agreements with multichannel television service providers are generally multi-year carriage agreements with set rate increases. the amount of fees we receive is generally a function of the number of subscribers and the rates we receive per subscriber. expirations of these affiliate agreements are staggered. under svod and other similar ott agreements, we make certain programs available for distribution on one or more dates, and our revenue under these ott agreements is recognized when the content has been delivered and is available for use by the licensee. revenue related to the renewal or extension of these arrangements is recognized upon the start of the renewal or extension period to the extent the content has been delivered to the customer. accordingly, revenue will fluctuate depending on the timing of when programming licensing rights are made available to the customer. 12 table of contents consumer products, recreation and live events revenues our media networks consumer products, recreation and live events revenues are principally derived from (1) our consumer products activities, which include licensing our brands and intellectual property, the sale of dvds and blu-ray discs, and the creation and publishing of interactive games across various platforms (including mobile devices, pcs and consoles), (2) recreation experiences and (3) live events. our consumer products, recreation and live events revenues vary based on consumer spending, the popularity of our programming and intellectual property, and the volume of content available during a particular period. media networks competition our media networks segment primarily competes with other widely distributed cable networks, broadcast television networks and digital programming services and platforms. our media networks segment competes for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, social media platforms, other connected outlets such as websites, apps and other online experiences, radio programming and print media. each programming service competes for audience share with other programming services that target or include the same audience. for example, nickelodeon's programming and services compete for younger viewers, and bet's programming and services compete for consumers of black culture, with other entertainment services, including cable and broadcast networks, digital distribution outlets and other content platforms. we also compete with other cable networks for affiliate fees and distribution. our networks compete with other content creators for directors, actors, writers, producers and other creative talent and for new program ideas and the acquisition of popular programming. competition from these sources may affect our revenues and costs. filmed entertainment overview our filmed entertainment segment develops, produces, finances, acquires and distributes films, television programming and other entertainment content in various markets and media worldwide through its paramount pictures , paramount players tm , paramount animation and paramount television divisions. it partners on various projects with key viacom brands, including nickelodeon movies, mtv films and bet films tm . films produced, acquired and/or distributed by the filmed entertainment segment are generally first exhibited theatrically in domestic and/or international markets and then released in various markets through airlines and hotels, electronic sell-through, dvds and blu-ray discs, tvod, pay television, svod, basic cable television, free television and free video-on-demand ( fvod ). in fiscal year 2019, the filmed entertainment segment released 10 films theatrically, including bumblebee , rocketman , instant family , wonder park , pet sematary , dora and the lost city of gold and crawl . paramount pictures is a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment and has an extensive library consisting of approximately 1,200 film titles produced by paramount, acquired rights to approximately 2,100 additional films and a number of television programs. paramount's library includes many academy award winners, including titanic , braveheart , forrest gump , the godfather , the godfather part ii and wings , which won the first academy award ever awarded for best picture in 1929. the paramount library also includes other academy award best picture nominees such as arrival , fences , the big short , selma and the wolf of wall street , classics such as the ten commandments , breakfast at tiffany's and sunset boulevard , and a number of successful franchises such as mission : impossible , transformers , star trek and paranormal activity . paramount's 2020 slate currently includes gemini man , terminator: dark fate , sonic the hedgehog , a quiet place 2 and top gun: maverick , as it continues to build franchises and introduce original concepts to audiences around the world. 13 table of contents paramount players aims to expand paramount's slate of films by partnering with our media networks brands to develop, produce and release distinctive feature films that showcase the network brands to movie audiences worldwide. these films are distributed by paramount with a unique emphasis on marketing campaigns and integrations benefiting from the global reach of our iconic brands. paramount players also focuses on modest budget films of specific genres for target audiences. in august 2019, paramount players released dora and the lost city of gold , a live-action adaptation of the classic nickelodeon series dora the explorer , co-produced with nickelodeon movies. paramount animation creates high-quality animated films and aims to release one to two titles per year. in march 2019, paramount animation released wonder park , a film about the adventures of a young girl in a magical amusement park. upcoming 2020 releases include spongebob 3 and rumble , about an endearing monster set in a world of monster sport wrestling. paramount television develops and finances a wide range of original, premium television content across all types of media platforms for distribution worldwide. paramount television's productions include tom clancy's jack ryan for amazon; the haunting of hill house , 13 reasons why and maniac for netflix; the alienist and the alienist: the angel of darkness for tnt; catch-22 and looking for alaska for hulu; defending jacob and home before dark for apple; boomerang and dream team for bet; first wives club for bet+; paradise lost for spectrum originals and paramount network; and berlin station for epix. paramount television's 2020 slate currently includes shantaram for apple, made for love and station eleven for hbo max, when the street lights go on for quibi, and sexy beast for paramount network. in 2019, paramount television's programming received seven emmy nominations. film production, distribution and financing paramount produces many of the films it releases and also acquires films for distribution from third parties. in some cases, paramount co-finances and/or co-distributes films with third parties, including other studios. paramount also enters into film-specific financing and slate financing arrangements from time to time under which third parties participate in the financing of the costs of a film or group of films in exchange for an economic participation and a partial copyright interest. paramount distributes films worldwide or in select territories or media, and may engage third-party distributors for certain pictures in certain territories. paramount has several multi-picture production, distribution and financing relationships, including its agreement with skydance productions ( skydance ), under which paramount and skydance produce and finance certain films, and paramount has a first look on skydance-initiated projects, including animated films. paramount also has an agreement with hasbro inc. ( hasbro ) involving the production, financing and distribution of live action and animated films based on hasbro's expansive list of properties. 14 table of contents domestically, paramount generally performs marketing and distribution services for theatrical releases and sales and marketing services for its home entertainment releases. paramount has an agreement with universal studios for certain back-office and distribution services for all physical dvd and blu-ray discs released by paramount in the u.s. and canada. paramount also distributes cbs' television and other library content on dvd and blu-ray disc on a worldwide basis under an agreement that runs through 2020. internationally, paramount generally distributes its theatrical releases through its own international affiliates or, in territories where it does not have an operating presence, through united international pictures, a joint venture with universal studios, or through third-party distributors. for home entertainment releases, paramount's physical dvd and blu-ray discs are distributed in certain international territories by universal pictures home entertainment and in certain other territories by paramount licensees. paramount also distributes films domestically and internationally on electronic sell-through, tvod, svod, fvod and television platforms. in the first domestic pay television distribution window, paramount's feature films initially theatrically released in the u.s. are generally exhibited on epix, a multi-platform premium entertainment service. producing, marketing and distributing films and television programming can involve significant costs, and the timing of a film's release can cause our financial results to vary. for example, marketing costs are generally incurred before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other distribution windows, and are expensed as incurred. as a result, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the film's theatrical exhibition, and recoupment of investment as well as profitability for the film may not be realized until well after its theatrical release. therefore, the results of the filmed entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows. filmed entertainment revenues our filmed entertainment segment generates revenues in four categories: (1) the release and/or distribution of films theatrically, (2) the release and/or distribution of film and television product through home entertainment, (3) the licensing of film and television product to television and digital platforms and (4) other ancillary activities. in fiscal year 2019 , theatrical revenues, home entertainment revenues, licensing revenues and ancillary revenues were approximately 18% , 21% , 52% and 9% , respectively, of total revenues for the filmed entertainment segment. revenues from the filmed entertainment segment accounted for 23% , 23% and 24% of our revenues for the fiscal years 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, after the elimination of intercompany revenues. theatrical revenues paramount generates revenues worldwide from the theatrical distribution of films, primarily from audience ticket sales, including 3d and/or imax tickets that are generally sold at premium pricing. our theatrical release strategy generally aims to develop films designed to appeal specifically to a targeted audience or to broad audiences, with appropriate budgets and projected revenue. each film is a separate and distinct product with its revenues and ultimate profitability dependent upon many factors, among which domestic and international theatrical audience response is of fundamental importance. theatrical revenues may also be affected by the number, timing and mix of releases and competitive offerings in any given period, consumer tastes and consumption habits, and overall economic conditions, including trends in discretionary spending. the theatrical success of a film is often a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment markets and licensing arrangements for television, ott services and other platforms. revenues from theatrical film releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer. in fiscal year 2019, paramount theatrically released in domestic and/or international markets bumblebee , rocketman , instant family , wonder park , pet sematary , dora and the lost city of gold , crawl , what men want , overlord and nobody's fool . home entertainment revenues home entertainment revenues are derived from the worldwide sales and distribution of dvds and blu-ray discs relating to the films released theatrically by paramount and programming of other viacom brands such as nickelodeon, mtv, comedy 15 table of contents central and bet, as well as certain acquired films and content distributed on behalf of third parties such as cbs. home entertainment revenues are also derived from the viewing of our films on a transactional basis through tvod and electronic sell-through services around the world, for a fee and/or on a revenue-sharing basis. our home entertainment revenues may be affected by the number, timing and mix of releases and competitive offerings in any given period, consumer tastes and consumption habits, the prominence given by distributors and retailers to our releases compared to those of our competitors, and overall economic conditions, including trends in discretionary spending. key home entertainment releases in fiscal year 2019 included mission: impossible - fallout , bumblebee and rocketman . licensing revenues paramount generates fees by licensing, around the world on a territory-by-territory basis, films and television programs produced, acquired or distributed by paramount, for a fee or on a revenue-sharing basis, to svod, pay and basic cable television, free television and free video-on-demand services. revenue from the licensing of film and television exhibition rights is recognized upon availability for airing by the licensee and will fluctuate depending on the number and mix of available titles in any given territory. licensing revenues in fiscal year 2019 were generated from licensing of films , including mission: impossible fallout , a quiet place , book club and transformers: the last knight , and from distribution of paramount television titles, including 13 reasons why , the haunting of hill house , catch-22 , tom clancy's jack ryan and berlin station . ancillary revenues paramount generates ancillary revenues by providing production and facilities services to third parties, primarily at paramount's studio lot. paramount also generates ancillary revenues by licensing its brands for consumer products, including video games, themed restaurants, hotels and resorts, live stage plays, theme parks and other location-based entertainment projects, as well as its film clips and music library. filmed entertainment competition our filmed entertainment segment's competitive position primarily depends on the amount and quality of the content it produces, its distribution and marketing success and public response. it competes for audiences for its films, television programming and other entertainment content with releases by other major film studios, television producers and ott services as well as with other forms of entertainment and consumer spending outlets. it also competes for creative talent, including producers, actors, directors and writers, and new film and television projects, all of which are essential to our success. our film brands also compete with studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution on third-party platforms. competition from these sources may affect our revenues and costs. environmental, social and governance strategy viacom is committed to responsible and sustainable business practices, which strengthen our ability to innovate and better serve our partners, audiences and shareholders. we are proactively identifying, measuring and mapping the environmental, social and governance ( esg ) impacts of our global operations, and are working to manage and report our non-financial material esg impacts in an effort to transparently address them with stakeholders. as content creators, we are passionate about entertaining and informing the world, and are committed to our legacy of creating lasting impact through our work. from groundbreaking hiv awareness initiatives to campaigns supporting education, women's health and youth empowerment, we have always been at the forefront of championing the causes that matter to our audiences. today, we're continuing to leverage our brands and our global reach to amplify the work of those who are striving to make positive changes in their communities. being a good corporate citizen and making a positive impact in communities around the world is fundamental to what we do every day. following are just a few examples of our efforts: 16 table of contents viacommunity day, our global day of service, offers over 100 opportunities for thousands of employees across viacom, in 25 countries, to join together to volunteer in our communities each year. from beautifying local parks to mentoring youth in schools to assembling kits for those in need, viacommunity day has long been a tradition for viacom employees, celebrating its 23 rd year in 2019. generation change is our first global corporate social responsibility (csr) initiative focused on elevating, empowering and activating young people driving change around the world. generation change's areas of focus vary among our brands and markets. from the global climate strike to the march for our lives movement, young people have proven that they can make an impact when they come together to push for change. the initiative leverages viacom's global scale, brand power and generational reach to amplify the voices of young change-makers, inspire youth to engage on global issues, and provide opportunities for action both big and small. generation change has also convened a global youth advisory board comprised of leading global change-makers, who will serve as ambassadors and advisors, and provide ongoing insight and counsel on the campaign's many touch points including content, messaging and partnerships. get schooled inspires and empowers students nationwide to thrive in high school, college and their first jobs through a unique blend of powerful digital content, gamification and personalized support. in its 10-year history, get schooled has partnered with over 15,000 educators and their students, and has been recognized by fast company as a most innovative company. the save the music foundation helps kids, schools, and communities realize their full potential through the power of making music. founded in 1997, save the music partners with school districts and raises funds to restore music programs in public schools. since inception, we have donated over $58 million worth of new musical instruments and technology to 2,159 schools in 276 school districts around the country, impacting the lives of countless students. beyond the backpack is a celebration of nickelodeon's curriculum-based preschool properties. the initiative champions kindergarten and pre-k readiness by providing fun, simple and unique tools to address the five areas identified as critical to 17 table of contents educational success: family engagement, health &amp; wellness, literacy skills, social &amp; emotional skills, and steam (science, technology, engineering, arts and math) skills. beyond the backpack reinforces the academic community's view that parents and caregivers are their child's first teachers and that it is never too early to start getting ready. in 2019, nickelodeon donated 75,000 printed toolkits and 2,500 backpacks full of school supplies. paramount has a long and proud tradition of giving back with a corporate social responsibility program focused on four key initiatives: supporting public education; protecting the environment; combating hiv/aids; and promoting volunteerism. by offering employee engagement opportunities, coupled with financial and in-kind contributions, paramount supports numerous local, national, and global non-profit organizations. kindergarten to cap &amp; gown - paramount's signature education program - mentors students through their educational experience, targeting four partner schools in paramount's los angeles neighborhood. now in its seventh year, viacom employees mentor students from the high school of fashion industries in new york city, helping them develop a business plan for their virtual apparel company (fly new york). up mentors help the students understand how their work applies to real-life scenarios. during the 2018-19 school year, the students made it to the final round of the 2019 business plan competition, placing 14 th out of 680 teams internationally. in celebration of their success, they were featured on viacom's billboard in times square. in 2019, paramount network debuted the first installments of take action - a short-form digital documentary series addressing important social issues related to our content themes. we believe that stories of individual volunteers and activists have the power to connect us, inspire action and, ultimately, create real change. each film includes a call-to-action, partnering with a nonprofit organization to give the audience the opportunity to learn more and take action themselves. the mtv staying alive foundation produces multi-award-winning, impactful behavior change campaigns to further its purpose of storytelling to save lives and enable young people to make empowered, informed choices about their health and wellbeing. regulation and protection of our intellectual property we are, fundamentally, a content company, so the trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws that protect our brands and content are of paramount importance to us. our businesses and the intellectual property they create or acquire are subject to and affected by laws and regulations of u.s. federal, state and local governmental authorities, as well as laws and regulations of countries other than the u.s. and pan-national bodies such as the european union ( eu ). the laws and regulations affecting our businesses are constantly subject to change, as are the protections that those laws and regulations afford us. the discussion below describes certain, but not all, present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses. 18 table of contents certain regulations affecting our business children's programming our business is subject to various regulations, both in the u.s. and abroad, applicable to children's programming. since 1990, federal legislation and rules of the u.s. federal communications commission (the fcc ) have limited the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger, and since 2006 the fcc has limited the display of certain commercial website addresses during children's programming. in addition, some policymakers have sought limitations on food and beverage marketing in media popular with children and teens. for example, restrictions on the television advertising of foods high in fat, salt and sugar ( hfss ) to children aged 15 and under have been in place in the uk since 2007. the uk government is currently considering tighter controls, including a ban on all hfss advertising before 9:00 p.m. various laws with similar objectives have also been enacted in ireland, turkey, mexico, chile, peru, taiwan and south korea, and significant pressure for similar restrictions continues to be felt globally, most acutely in australia, brazil, canada, colombia, india, hungary, singapore, south africa and france. the implementation of these or similar limitations and restrictions could have a negative impact on our media networks advertising revenues, particularly for our networks with programming for children and teens. global data protection laws and children's privacy laws a number of data protection laws impact, or may impact, the manner in which viacom collects, processes and transfers personal data. in the eu, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) mandates data protection compliance obligations and authorizes significant fines for noncompliance, requiring significant compliance resources and efforts on our part. further, a number of other regions where we do business, including the u.s., asia and latin america, have enacted or are considering new data protection regulations that may impact our business activities that involve the processing of personal data. for example, in the u.s., the california consumer privacy act, which goes into effect on january 1, 2020, creates a host of new obligations for businesses regarding how they handle the personal information of california residents, including creating new data access, data deletion and opt out rights. in addition, some of the mechanisms viacom relies upon for the transfer of personal data from the eu to the u.s., such as utilizing standard contractual clauses approved by the european commission ( ec ), have been subject to legal challenges, and the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework, which permits the transfer of personal data from the eu to the u.s., is subject to review by the relevant eu and u.s. authorities. the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain and may require changes to our international data transfer mechanisms. in addition, we are subject to other laws and regulations intended specifically to protect the interests of children, including the privacy of minors online. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act ( coppa ) limits the collection by operators of websites or online services of personal information online from children under 13 years of age. in july 2019, the federal trade commission initiated a review of its regulations implementing coppa, which we anticipate will be updated to address changes in technology. in the eu, gdpr also limits our ability to process data from children under the age of 16. we have been required to limit some functionality on our websites and apps as a result of these regulations. such regulations also restrict the types of advertising we are able to sell on these sites and apps and impose strict liability on us for certain actions of viacom, advertisers and other third parties, which could affect advertising demand and pricing. state and federal policymakers are also considering regulatory and legislative methods to protect consumer privacy on the internet, and these efforts have focused particular attention on children and teens. compliance with enhanced data protection laws, which may be inconsistent with one another, requires additional resources and efforts on our part, and noncompliance with personal data protection regulations could result in increased regulatory enforcement and significant monetary fines. eu commission's digital single market strategy the eu continues to pursue its digital single market ( dsm ) strategy, which contains a broad range of proposals designed to create a more complete eu-wide market for digital goods and services, several of which are likely to impact viacom's businesses. in november 2018, the eu adopted a number of reforms to the audiovisual media services directive (the avmsd ), which sets content and advertising rules for european broadcasters. the avmsd applies the country-of-origin ( coo ) principle to linear and non-linear tv services, enabling cross-border broadcasts from a single regulatory jurisdiction, and sets compulsory 19 table of contents minimum pan-eu content and advertising rules that member states may choose to exceed. these reforms include a mandatory quota for european works on on-demand audiovisual services platforms, the option for eu states to introduce levies on the revenues of audiovisual media-service providers, and liberalized rules governing the scheduling of advertising on linear broadcasters. member states have until september 2020 to transpose the reforms into national law. these changes could impact revenues for the vimn tv channels business in europe and affiliate deals with platforms for both film and tv distribution. in june 2019, two new eu directives became effective and may impact the way we acquire and distribute content online. the copyright directive introduced a requirement to agree to terms for the carriage of copyrighted content on online platforms (or to remove content in the absence of such agreement), and also granted rights to authors and performers to fair and proportionate remuneration, greater transparency and a right to revoke agreements if their work is not adequately exploited. the online broadcasting directive extends the system of mandatory collective exercise of cable retransmission rights to other forms of retransmission including internet protocol television (iptv) and mobile, thereby potentially reducing the control that rights owners have over online distribution. eu states have until june 2021 to transpose these directives into national law, if similar provisions do not already exist. in 2020, the eu will evaluate the impact of the 2018 ec geo-blocking regulation that prohibits unjustified geo-blocking and other forms of discrimination based on customers' nationality, place of residence or place of establishment. as part of its evaluation, it will consider whether the scope of the regulation should be extended to services that offer audio-visual and other copyrighted content, which may impact content owners' ability to distribute on an exclusive, territorial basis within the eu. restrictions on content distribution in addition to the eu, numerous countries around the world impose restrictions on the amount and nature of content that may be distributed in that country. such regulations in china have the greatest impact, as only 34 foreign films, as selected by relevant authorities in china, may be distributed annually on a revenue share basis based on box office performance. in addition, in september 2018, china's film and television regulator, the national administration of tv and radio, published proposed regulations that would severely limit the streaming and broadcasting of foreign film and television content in china, further reducing foreign access to the chinese market. uk regulations affecting channel 5 business as a psb in the uk, channel 5 is subject to certain ofcom broadcasting regulations that impose detailed obligations, including mandating the proportion of total programming and programming during peak hours that must be original productions, the hours devoted to news and current affairs and the proportion of commissioned programming that must be made by independent producers. channel 5 has also undertaken to air a certain amount of uk-originated children's programming. like all uk broadcasters, channel 5 must abide by the ofcom broadcasting code, which contains content and scheduling regulations relating to harm and offense, protection of individuals under the age of 18, privacy, fairness and product placement, and by ofcom's code on the scheduling of television advertising, which contains regulations on the amount and scheduling of advertising. program access under the u.s. communications act of 1934, as amended, vertically integrated cable programmers are generally prohibited from entering into exclusive distribution arrangements or offering different prices, terms or conditions to competing mvpds unless the differential is justified by certain permissible factors set forth in the regulations promulgated by the fcc. our wholly-owned program services are not currently subject to these program access rules. because we and cbs are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of the program access rules, and therefore the businesses and conduct of cbs could have the effect of making us subject to the rules. if viacom or its programming agreements were to become subject to the program access rules, our flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for our content and our ability to offer cable television operators exclusive programming could be adversely affected. protecting our content from copyright theft the unauthorized reproduction, distribution, exhibition or other exploitation of copyrighted material interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to distribute and monetize our content. the theft of films, television and other 20 table of contents entertainment content presents a significant challenge to our industry, and we take a number of steps to address this concern. where possible, we use technological protection tools, such as encryption, to protect our content. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, including: monitoring online destinations that distribute or otherwise infringe our content and sending takedown or cease and desist notices in appropriate circumstances; using filtering technologies employed by some user-generated content sites; and pursuing litigation and referrals to law enforcement with respect to websites and other online platforms that distribute or facilitate the distribution and exploitation of our content without authorization. through partnerships with various organizations, we also are actively involved in educational outreach to the creative community, state and federal government officials and other stakeholders in an effort to marshal greater resources to combat copyright theft. additionally, we participate in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, public relations programs and legislative activities on a worldwide basis. we have had notable success with site-blocking efforts in parts of europe and asia, which can be effective in diverting consumers from piracy platforms to legitimate platforms. notwithstanding these efforts and the many legal protections that exist to combat piracy, the proliferation of content theft and technological tools with which to carry it out continue to be a challenge. the failure to maintain enhanced legal protections and enforcement tools and to update those tools as threats evolve could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could negatively impact its value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights as we continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. intellectual property we create, own and distribute intellectual property worldwide. it is our practice to protect our films, programs, content, brands, formats, characters, games, publications and other original and acquired works, and ancillary goods and services. the following brands, logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are a few of those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the company: viacom , nickelodeon , nick jr. , mtv , bet , comedy central , paramount network , nick at nite , nicktoons , teennick , mtv2 , mtv classic , vh1 , cmt , tv land , logo , channel 5 (uk), milkshake! (uk), telefe (argentina), colors , spike , paramount channel , mtv live tm , bet networks , bet her , bet gospel , bet hip hop , tr3s , paramount pictures , paramount players tm , paramount animation , paramount television , paramount vantage , paramount classics , insurge pictures , mtv films , nickelodeon movies , pluto tv tm , awesomenesstv , whosay , vidcon , viacom digital studios , viacom vantage , viacom velocity and other domestic and international program services and digital properties. employees and labor matters as of september 30, 2019 , we employed approximately 10,700 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, and had approximately 1,400 additional project-based staff on our payroll. we also use many other temporary employees in the ordinary course of our business. our filmed entertainment segment, through in-house, affiliated and third-party production service companies, engages the services of writers, directors, performers, musicians and various crew members who are subject to certain industry-wide and/or specially negotiated collective bargaining agreements. the alliance of motion picture and television producers is a multi-employer trade association, which, along with and on behalf of hundreds of member companies including paramount pictures, negotiates the industry-wide collective bargaining agreements with these parties. in the u.s., the agreement with musicians will expire in november 2019, and agreements with writers, directors and performers will expire in 2020. certain collective bargaining agreements that apply to specific companies have been negotiated in the past, and we expect will be negotiated as the need arises in the future. our media networks segment, through in-house and third-party production service companies, engages for certain of our productions the services of writers, directors, performers, musicians and various crew members who are subject to certain specially negotiated collective bargaining agreements or one-off agreements. since these agreements are entered into on a per-channel or per-project basis, negotiations occur on various agreements throughout the year. any dispute with the labor organizations that represent any of these parties could disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues. 21 table of contents available information we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the sec pursuant to the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, will be available free of charge on our website at www.viacom.com (under investors ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with the sec. these documents are also available on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition, contains both historical and forward-looking statements. all statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause future results, performance or achievements to differ. these risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in item 1a. risk factors below. other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the sec, including but not limited to our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k. the forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1a. risk factors. a wide range of risks may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, now and in the future. we consider the risks described below to be the most significant. there may be other currently unknown or unpredictable factors that could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks relating to viacom's business and industry changes in consumer behavior, as well as new technologies, distribution platforms and packaging, may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly, and new distribution platforms, as well as increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams. technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and have affected the options available to advertisers for reaching their target audiences. the evolution of consumer preferences away from linear pay television, away from physical towards digital services, and away from rental and purchased services towards subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or adequate methodologies for audience measurement, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising-blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements, and substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenue. in response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including skinny bundles, smaller, often customizable programming packages delivered at lower costs than traditional offerings; svod and other subscription services; ad-supported, free video-on-demand services; and original programming hosted on mobile and social media platforms. if these alternative offerings continue to gain traction and our networks and brands are not included in those packages and services, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional cable subscriptions, we may continue to experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower revenues. these changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents in order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider and from time to time implement changes to our business models and strategies to remain competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully anticipate or respond to these developments, that we will not experience disruption as we respond to the developments, or that the business models we develop will be as profitable as our current business models. our inability to protect and exploit the value of our content, while adapting to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our businesses operate in an industry that is highly competitive and swiftly consolidating companies in the television programming, film, digital, consumer products, live events and recreation businesses depend on the popularity of content and other offerings, appeal to advertisers and widespread distribution of their content. we compete with other media companies to attract creative talent and produce high quality content, and for distribution on a variety of third-party platforms to draw large audiences. competition for talent, content, audiences, service providers, production infrastructure, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), ott distributors, social media platforms, film studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search engines, program guides and second screen applications. further, competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as amazon, apple, facebook, hulu, netflix and youtube, continues to increase. our ability to obtain widespread distribution on favorable terms, which contributes to our ability to attract audiences and, in turn, advertisers, is adversely affected by the consolidation of programmers, distributors (including telecom companies) and television service providers. this consolidation reduces the number of distributors with whom we negotiate and increases the negotiating leverage and market power of the combined companies. in addition, consolidation in the film business may adversely affect the distribution of our films on various platforms. in addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our media networks business generally relies on distribution relationships with third parties. as more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers, telecom companies and other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information, as well as significant financial resources. this competition and consolidation could result in lower ratings and advertising, lower affiliate and other revenues, and increased content costs and promotional and other expenses, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenues and profitability. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition or consolidation in the marketplace will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands and produce popular programming, films and other entertainment content, which is difficult to predict our ability to maintain attractive brands and create popular entertainment content, successful tentpole events and consumer products, recreation and live events offerings are key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. the production and distribution of programming, films and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our ability to satisfy consumer tastes and expectations in a consistent manner. the popularity of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. we invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks, in our films and in our television production business, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers. in our media networks business, the popularity of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees and consumer products and other licensing activities, and our ability to expand our presence internationally depends, in part, on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and 23 table of contents preferences outside the u.s. in our filmed entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a film affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also revenues from other distribution outlets, such as tvod and svod, television, home entertainment and licensed consumer products. as a result, a lack of popularity of our offerings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term. our advertising revenues have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by declines in linear television viewing, deficiencies in audience measurement and advertising market conditions we derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in any given period. consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, and an increasing number of companies offer svod services, including some that offer exclusive high-quality original video programming and programming delivered directly to consumers over the internet. the increasing number of entertainment choices available to consumers has intensified audience fragmentation and reduced the viewing of content through traditional and virtual multichannel video providers, which has caused, and likely will continue to cause, audience ratings declines for our cable networks and may adversely affect the pricing and volume of advertising. in addition, advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the statistical sampling methods used. while nielsen's statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods, including the number of impressions served and demographics. in addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. these variations and changes could have a significant effect on our advertising revenues. the strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers' current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in domestic and international advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to us as current advertising methods. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of distributors, the loss of affiliation agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations a significant portion of our revenues are attributable to agreements with a limited number of cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription- and advertising-supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. our affiliation agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including but not limited to those related to pricing and programming tiers. we may also be unable to modify existing agreements with terms that have over time become less favorable. the loss of favorable packaging and positioning, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor, or renew or modify them on favorable terms, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees. similarly, our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation agreements. as these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation with respect to our rights and 24 table of contents obligations. for example, some of our distribution agreements contain most favored nation ( mfn ) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes specified terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an mfn right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the mfn right. these clauses are generally complex and may lead to disagreement over their interpretation and application. disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees, as well as our relationship with that distributor. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. service disruptions or failures of, or cybersecurity attacks upon, our or our vendors' networks, information systems and other technologies could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business or personal information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses networks, cloud services, information systems and other technologies, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films by us or our third-party vendors ( systems ), are critical to our business activities, and shutdowns or service disruptions of, and cybersecurity attacks upon, these systems pose increasing risks. such shutdowns, disruptions and attacks may be caused by third-party hacking of computers and systems; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial of service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. shutdowns, disruptions and attacks from such events could have an adverse impact on us, our business partners, our employees, our audiences and users of our online, mobile and app offerings, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be sufficient to cover everything that could happen. significant events could result in a disruption of our operations, reduced revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate our businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to our reputation or brands. we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any losses associated with such events. we are also subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of business or personal data or programming content maintained in our or our third-party vendors' systems, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information including intellectual property, or other confidential information. outside parties may attempt to penetrate our systems or those of our third-party vendors, including cloud service providers, or fraudulently induce employees, business partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users' data, or our programming. the number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches in the u.s. and elsewhere have increased in recent years. if a material breach of our systems or those of our third-party vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our information security measures could be harmed, we could lose advertisers and other business partners as well as users of our online, mobile and app offerings and viewers, and our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged. in addition, if a material breach of our systems occurs, we could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such systems or to comply with notification requirements. we could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation in the event of a breach of our or our third-party vendors' systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, these systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. despite our efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated. each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. the failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations we use satellite systems, fiber and other methods to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. the distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. notwithstanding 25 table of contents certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming, and if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. there can be no assurance that such failure or disruption would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized exhibitions of our content, reduces revenue received from legitimate distribution of our programming, films and other entertainment content and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations the success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights. we are fundamentally a content company and theft of our content - specifically, the infringement of our films and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property rights - affects us and the value of our content. intellectual property theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that either lack effective laws and technical protection measures similar to those existing in the u.s. and europe or lack effective enforcement of such measures, or both. such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. the interpretation of copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws as applied to our content, and our infringement-detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of enforcement have encountered political opposition. the failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and thus negatively affect its value. content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. the continuing proliferation of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. the unauthorized distribution and consumption of our content through a wide array of platforms and devices remain problematic and an ever-present challenge, as internet-connected televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices are ubiquitous and many can support illegal re-transmission platforms, ott subscription services, illicit video-on-demand/streaming services and pre-loaded hardware, providing more accessible, versatile and legitimate-looking environments for consuming pirated film and television content. unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of films or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming and our ability to monetize our content. copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's and some affiliate partners' perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content. while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. we are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased costs for programming, films and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in our media networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content, and as part of our business strategy we invest significant resources in our flagship brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content. in our filmed entertainment business, we invest significant amounts in the production, marketing and distribution of films and television series. we also acquire programming, films and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. we also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations. 26 table of contents our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. competition for popular content is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay for talent and intellectual property rights, which may result in significantly increased costs. further, increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as amazon, apple, facebook, hulu, netflix and youtube, increases our content costs as they introduce different ways of compensating talent and approaching production. in addition, as competition for the creation and acquisition of quality programming continues to escalate, the complexity of negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we aim to acquire may increase, leading to increased acquisition costs, and our ability to successfully acquire content of the highest quality may face greater uncertainty. finally, certain of our counterparties and vendors may encounter financial and operational pressures, which could result in increased costs to us or delays in production. as such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments in programming, films and other content when the content is broadcast or distributed. the accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, films and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or film. if our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in decreased revenues and profitability and the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write-down of the value of the asset. we estimate the ultimate revenues of a film before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film's initial theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. if we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the loss of key talent could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. for example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce films with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. these individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, films and other content. there can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining them or new talent will be reasonable. if we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations our businesses operate and have audiences, customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. for that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. economic conditions in each market can also impact our audience's discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content, as well as the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks, causing them to reduce their spending on advertising. we may also be subject to longer payment cycles. in addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar (compared to, for example, the argentinian peso, the british pound and the euro, among others) has increased. such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period. our businesses are also exposed to certain political risks inherent in conducting a global business, including retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in the u.s. and other countries, including in connection with trade negotiations; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; escalating 27 table of contents trade, immigration and nuclear disputes; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other political, economic or other uncertainties. depending on the ultimate terms and outcome of ongoing negotiations and political turmoil regarding the uk's departure from the eu ( brexit ), the uk could lose access to the single eu market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members. the effects of brexit and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the uk from the eu may continue to adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the uk, the eurozone, the eu and elsewhere and contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the euro and the british pound. in addition, brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the eu, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use uk law under country of origin rules for programming in the eu, potential trade barriers between the uk and the eu and between the uk and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. given that a portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the uk, any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. these political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. changes in u.s. or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations our program services, filmed entertainment and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection, anti-corruption, repatriation of profits, tax regimes, quotas, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, operating license and permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, and exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship, among others. laws in some non-u.s. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the u.s., and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. the u.s. congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations of our businesses. our nickelodeon business in particular is subject to a number of regulations regarding children. for example, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. the threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising or reaching their intended audiences could adversely affect advertising revenue. our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which has implications for how such data is managed. for example, gdpr expands the regulation of personal data processing throughout the eu and significantly increases penalties for non-compliance. complying with these laws and regulations could be costly, require us to change our business practices, or limit or restrict aspects of our business in a manner adverse to our business operations. many of these laws and regulations continue to evolve, and substantial uncertainty surrounds their scope and application. our failure to comply could result in exposure to enforcement by u.s. or foreign governments, as well as significant negative publicity and reputational damage. our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws by courts and regulators and the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce our legal rights. we could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. we could also incur substantial costs to comply with new and existing laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. 28 table of contents we could be subject to material liabilities as a result of adoption of or changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous international jurisdictions. our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in the federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and these rates may be subject to significant change. our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation, adverse outcomes, or settlements may occur because tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, including our methodologies for intercompany arrangements. additionally, shifting economic and political conditions may result in significant changes to tax policies, laws or tax rates in various jurisdictions. such changes, litigation, adverse outcomes, or audit settlements may result in the recognition of additional charges to our income tax provision in any given period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. volatility and weakness in capital markets may adversely affect our credit availability and related financing costs bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. if the disruption in these markets is prolonged, our ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of our debt could be adversely affected. although we can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for us. in addition, our access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by our short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. in addition, the interest rates included in certain agreements that govern certain of our debt securities and/or credit facilities may be based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). in the future, use of libor may be discontinued and we cannot be certain how long libor will continue to be a viable benchmark interest rate. use of alternative interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs or volatility in the markets and interest rates. these factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in our debt ratings, could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost effective financing. our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services and technologies through acquisitions and other strategic initiatives present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we had contemplated, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations we have acquired and invested, and expect to continue to acquire and invest, in new businesses, products, services and technologies as part of our ongoing efforts to transition to next-generation platforms and solutions and diversify beyond our core business. such acquisitions and strategic initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including diversion of management attention from current operations; insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the new investments; failure to achieve projected synergies, cost savings or cash flow from acquired businesses, which are based on projections that are inherently uncertain; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities; difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and systems of acquired businesses and, in the case of foreign acquisitions, integrating operations across different cultures and languages and addressing the particular currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired businesses; and a failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology. because new investments are inherently risky, and the anticipated benefits or value of these investments may not materialize, no assurance can be given that such investments and other strategic alternatives will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. in the u.s., the industry-wide collective bargaining agreement with musicians will expire in november 2019, and agreements with writers, directors and performers will expire in 2020. in addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. 29 table of contents our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our films and other programming and on seasonal factors our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical films, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. for example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of films, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences' viewing habits and attendance. typically, our revenue from advertising is highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from films is highest in the summer. the effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. risks relating to national amusements' voting control of viacom and cbs through national amusements' voting control of us and cbs, certain directors and stockholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest, and national amusements is in a position to control actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval national amusements, inc. ( nai or national amusements ), directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both viacom and cbs. national amusements owns shares in viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in viacom and approximately 10% of viacom's combined common stock. national amusements is controlled by sumner m. redstone, our chairman emeritus, who is the chairman and chief executive officer of national amusements, through the sumner m. redstone national amusements trust (the smr trust ), which owns shares in national amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of national amusements. the shares representing the other 20% of the voting interest of national amusements are held through a trust controlled by shari e. redstone, who is mr. redstone's daughter, the non-executive vice chair of viacom's board of directors, the non-executive vice chair of cbs' board of directors, and the president and a member of the board of directors of national amusements. the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust are voted solely by mr. redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. upon mr. redstone's incapacity or death, ms. redstone will also become a trustee of the smr trust and the shares of national amusements held by the smr trust will be voted by the trustees of the smr trust. the current trustees include mr. redstone, who is also a member of the board of directors of national amusements and serves as chairman emeritus of cbs. the national amusements ownership structure and the common directors among national amusements, viacom and cbs could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. for example, potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and cbs, or when we and cbs enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with cbs. in addition, national amusements' voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, stockholder-proposed amendments to our bylaws, mergers and transactions involving a change in control. for so long as national amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than national amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. the interests of national amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. see also risks relating to the pending merger with cbs nai, through its voting control of viacomcbs, will be in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval. our certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us our certificate of incorporation and the certificate of incorporation of cbs both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both us and to cbs. our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a 30 table of contents director, officer or controlling stockholder of viacom who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of cbs acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both viacom and cbs, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to viacom or cbs or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties, and shall not be liable, to viacom or its stockholders. in addition, viacom's certificate of incorporation provides that viacom renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to cbs. these provisions create the possibility that cbs could have access to corporate opportunities from which viacom could benefit in addition to, or instead of, cbs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. upon closing of the merger, the above provisions will no longer be applicable at the effective time of the merger and viacomcbs will be governed by the amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the a&amp;r charter ), which is attached as an exhibit to the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. we, national amusements and cbs, and our respective businesses, are attributable to each other for certain regulatory purposes, which may limit business opportunities or impose additional costs so long as we, national amusements and cbs are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of u.s. and non-u.s. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the fcc, certain rules under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the u.s., among others. the businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for fcc and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. as a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from cbs, or may impose additional costs on us. risks relating to the pending merger with cbs as previously announced, on august 13, 2019, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with cbs, pursuant to which, subject to customary closing conditions, we will merge with and into cbs, with cbs surviving as the surviving corporation, which will be named viacomcbs inc. a joint consent solicitation statement/prospectus on form s-4 was filed with the sec and declared effective on october 25, 2019 and we expect to close the merger in early december 2019. because the market price of cbs common stock will fluctuate, viacom stockholders cannot be sure of the value of viacomcbs common stock they will receive in the merger. in addition, because the exchange ratio is fixed, the number of shares of viacomcbs common stock to be received by viacom stockholders in the merger will not change between now and the time the merger is completed to reflect changes in the trading prices of cbs common stock or viacom common stock as a result of the merger, each share of viacom class a common stock and each share of viacom class b common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (other than shares held directly by viacom as treasury shares or by cbs) will be converted automatically into 0.59625 shares of viacomcbs class a common stock and 0.59625 shares of viacomcbs class b common stock, respectively. the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted prior to the closing to account for changes in the trading prices of cbs common stock or viacom common stock or, except as otherwise set forth in the merger agreement, other factors. the exact value of the consideration to viacom stockholders will therefore depend on the price per share of cbs common stock at the closing of the merger, which may be greater than, less than or the same as the price per share of cbs common stock at the time of entry into the merger agreement. the market price of cbs common stock is subject to general price fluctuations in the market for publicly traded equity securities and has experienced volatility in the past. stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in the business, operations and prospects of cbs or viacom and regulatory considerations, many of which are factors beyond cbs' and viacom's control. 31 table of contents we will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, commercial partners, clients and customers may have an adverse effect on us. these uncertainties may impair our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers and others that deal with us to defer or decline entering into contracts with us or making other decisions concerning us or seek to change existing business relationships with us. certain of our contracts contain change of control restrictions that may give rise to a right of termination or cancellation in connection with the merger. in addition, if key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles and the potential complexities of the merger, our business could be harmed. furthermore, the merger agreement contains restrictions on our ability to take certain actions outside the ordinary course of business prior to the closing of the merger, which may delay or prevent us from undertaking certain actions or business opportunities that may arise prior to the closing. for more information, see the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. the merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger the merger agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to enter into alternative transactions. the merger agreement contains certain provisions that restrict our ability to, among other things, solicit, initiate or knowingly facilitate or encourage the submission of inquiries regarding, or the making of any proposal or offer that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, an acquisition proposal from a third party. for more information, see the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, upon the receipt of the viacom stockholder approval on october 28, 2019, our right to terminate the merger agreement in response to a superior proposal was eliminated. while we believe these provisions are reasonable and customary, the provisions might discourage a third party that has an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing such acquisition, even if such party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per-share value than the currently proposed merger consideration. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our business, financial results and stock price if the merger is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay cbs a termination fee of $373,000,000; we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as significant fees and expenses relating to financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, employee-benefit and related expenses, regulatory filings and filing and printing fees; and matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and the expenditure of significant funds in the form of fees and expenses, which could otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. in addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our employees, commercial partners, clients and customers. we could also be subject to litigation, including litigation related to failure to complete the merger or to enforce cbs' obligations under the merger agreement. if the merger is not consummated, there can be no assurance that the risks described above will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. for a description of the circumstances under which a termination fee is payable, see the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. litigation relating to the merger may be filed against our board of directors and/or our special committee that could prevent or delay the closing of the merger and/or result in the payment of damages following the closing in connection with the merger, it is possible that our stockholders may file putative class action lawsuits against our board of directors and/or our special committee. among other remedies, these stockholders could seek damages and/or to enjoin the merger. the outcome of any litigation is uncertain and any such potential lawsuits could prevent or delay the closing and/or result in substantial costs to us. any such actions may create uncertainty relating to the merger and may be costly and 32 table of contents distracting to management. further, the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect viacomcbs' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shares of viacomcbs common stock to be received by viacom stockholders upon the closing will have different rights from shares of viacom common stock upon the closing, our stockholders will no longer be stockholders of viacom. instead, our former stockholders will become viacomcbs stockholders and their rights as viacomcbs stockholders will be governed by the laws of the state of delaware and the terms of the a&amp;r charter and the amended and restated bylaws of the combined company (the a&amp;r bylaws ). the a&amp;r charter and a&amp;r bylaws of the combined company are in some respects materially different than the terms of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which currently govern the rights of our stockholders. see the form a&amp;r charter and form a&amp;r bylaws attached as exhibits to the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. although we expect that the merger will result in synergies and other benefits, those synergies and benefits may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time frame our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, to a large extent, on viacomcbs' ability to integrate our and cbs' businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and achieves the projected standalone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. even if viacomcbs is able to integrate the two companies successfully, the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the expected synergies, may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. our business may not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected. operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or vendors, may be greater than expected following the merger. revenues following the merger may be lower than expected the combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time-consuming and may divert significant management attention and resources to combining our and cbs' business practices and operations. this process may disrupt our business. the failure to meet the challenges involved in combining the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of viacomcbs and could adversely affect the results of operations of viacomcbs. the overall combination of our and cbs' businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including intellectual property and communications systems, administrative and information technology infrastructure and financial reporting and internal control systems; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; difficulties in integrating employees and attracting and retaining key personnel, including talent; challenges in retaining existing, and obtaining new customers, viewers, suppliers, distributors, licensors, lessors, employees, business associates and others, including material content providers, studios, authors, producers, directors, actors and other talents, guilds and advertisers; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, accretion targets, business opportunities, financing plans and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in continuing to develop valuable and widely-accepted content and technologies; 33 table of contents contingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger. many of these factors are outside of our control and/or will be outside the control of viacomcbs, and any one of them could result in lower revenues, higher costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of viacomcbs. in addition, even if the operations of our and cbs' businesses are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the merger may not be realized, including, among others, the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and cbs' businesses. all of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of viacomcbs, decrease or delay the projected accretive effect of the merger, and negatively impact the price of the viacomcbs common stock following the merger. as a result, it cannot be assured that the combination of us and cbs will result in the realization of the full benefits expected from the merger within the anticipated time frames or at all. we have incurred, and will incur, substantial direct and indirect costs as a result of the merger we have incurred, and will incur, substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the merger, including financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, employee-benefit and related expenses, regulatory filings and filing and printing fees. in addition, over a period of time following the closing, viacomcbs is also expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with integrating and coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of us and cbs. a portion of the transaction costs related to the merger will be incurred regardless of whether the merger is completed. while we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses will exceed the costs historically borne by us. these costs could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of us prior to the merger and of viacomcbs following the merger. the market price for viacomcbs common stock following the closing of the merger may be affected by factors different from those that historically have affected or currently affect our common stock upon the closing of the merger, our stockholders will receive shares of viacomcbs common stock. viacomcbs' business and financial position will differ from our business and financial position before the closing and, accordingly, the results of operations of viacomcbs will be affected by some factors that are different from those currently affecting our results of operations. accordingly, the market price and performance of viacomcbs common stock is likely to be different from the performance of our common stock in the absence of the merger. in addition, general fluctuations in stock markets could have a material adverse effect on the market for, or liquidity of, viacomcbs common stock, regardless of viacomcbs' actual operating performance. the merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the earnings per share of viacomcbs, which may negatively affect the market price of the viacomcbs common stock in the merger, based on the estimated number of shares of cbs common stock and viacom common stock that are expected to be outstanding immediately prior to the closing, it is anticipated that cbs will issue approximately 243 million shares of viacomcbs common stock. the issuance of these new shares could have the effect of depressing the market price of the viacomcbs common stock. in addition, we (or viacomcbs after the merger) could encounter other transaction-related costs, such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger, which could cause dilution to viacomcbs' earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and cause a decrease in the market price of the viacomcbs common stock. nai, through its voting control of viacomcbs, will be in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval nai, through its direct and indirect ownership of viacomcbs class a common stock, will have voting control of viacomcbs. immediately following the closing, nai is expected to directly or indirectly own approximately 79.4% of the shares of viacomcbs class a common stock outstanding, and approximately 10.1% of the shares of viacomcbs class a common stock 34 table of contents and viacomcbs class b common stock outstanding on a combined basis (and based on fully diluted shares outstanding of viacomcbs, including restricted stock units, performance-based restricted stock units and exercisable options). mr. redstone is the beneficial owner of the controlling interest in nai and, accordingly, beneficially owns all such shares. mr. redstone serves as chairman emeritus of our board of directors but will not serve as an officer or director of viacomcbs following the closing, and ms. redstone will serve as non-executive chair of the viacomcbs board of directors. nai is controlled by mr. redstone through the smr trust, which owns 80% of the voting interest of nai, and such voting interest of nai held by the smr trust is voted solely by mr. redstone until his incapacity or death. the smr trust provides that in the event of mr. redstone's death or incapacity, voting control of the nai voting interest held by the smr trust will pass to seven trustees, who will include the non-executive chair of the viacomcbs board of directors, ms. shari e. redstone. no member of viacomcbs' management is a trustee of the smr trust. subject to the terms of the governance agreement dated as of august 13, 2019, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k, nai will be in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending the a&amp;r bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. for example, the a&amp;r bylaws will provide that: the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of viacomcbs then entitled to vote generally in an election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required for the viacomcbs stockholders to amend, alter, change, repeal or adopt any bylaws of viacomcbs; any or all of the directors of viacomcbs may be removed from office at any time prior to the expiration of his or her term of office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least a majority of all the aggregate voting power of outstanding shares of viacomcbs common stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a special meeting of the viacomcbs stockholders called expressly for that purpose; provided that during the two-year period following the closing date, the removal of the chief executive officer of viacomcbs requires the approval of the viacomcbs board of directors by the requisite approval (as defined in the form a&amp;r charter attached as an exhibit to the merger agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k); provided further , that during the two-year period following the closing date, nai and nai entertainment holdings llc are not permitted to remove any other persons who are members of the viacomcbs board of directors at the effective time in accordance with the merger agreement or who otherwise become members of the viacomcbs board of directors (other than any of the nai affiliated directors) without the requisite approval; and in accordance with the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), the viacomcbs stockholders may act by written consent without a meeting if such stockholders hold the number of shares representing not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such actions at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. accordingly, other viacomcbs stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as nai retains voting control. for more information, see the governance agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this annual report on form 10-k. sales of nai's shares of viacomcbs common stock, some of which are pledged to lenders, could adversely affect the stock price immediately following the closing of the merger, based on the estimated number of shares of cbs common stock and viacom common stock that are expected to be outstanding immediately prior to the closing, nai is expected to directly or indirectly own approximately 79.4% of the shares of viacomcbs class a common stock outstanding, and approximately 10.1% of the shares of viacomcbs class a common stock and viacomcbs class b common stock outstanding on a combined basis (and based on fully diluted shares outstanding of viacomcbs, including restricted stock units, performance-based restricted stock units and exercisable options). based on information received from nai, nai is expected to pledge to its lenders shares of viacomcbs class a common stock and viacomcbs class b common stock owned directly or indirectly by nai. immediately following the closing, the aggregate number of shares of viacomcbs common stock expected to be pledged by nai to its lenders will represent approximately 4.0% of the total outstanding shares of viacomcbs class a common stock and viacomcbs class b common stock, on a combined basis (and based on fully diluted shares outstanding of viacomcbs, 35 table of contents including restricted stock units, performance-based restricted stock units and exercisable options). immediately following the closing, the amount of viacomcbs class a common stock that nai is expected to directly or indirectly own and that is not expected to be pledged by nai to its lenders is expected to represent approximately 64.0% of the total outstanding shares of viacomcbs class a common stock (based on fully diluted shares outstanding of viacomcbs, including restricted stock units, performance-based restricted stock units and exercisable options). if there is a default on nai's debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares, the lenders may not effect a transfer, sale or disposition of any pledged shares of viacomcbs class a common stock, unless such shares have first been converted into viacomcbs class b common stock. a sale of the pledged shares could adversely affect the viacomcbs common stock share price. additionally, if the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares of viacomcbs class a common stock, nai will no longer directly or indirectly own those shares and such lenders would have voting rights in viacomcbs, unless and until such time as such lenders convert such shares into viacomcbs class b common stock in order to sell or transfer the shares. in addition, there can be no assurance that at some future time nai will not sell or pledge additional shares of viacomcbs common stock, which could adversely affect the viacomcbs common stock share price. the a&amp;r bylaws will designate the court of chancery of the state of delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by viacomcbs stockholders (or, if the court of chancery of the state of delaware lacks subject matter jurisdiction, any state or federal court located within the state of delaware), which could discourage lawsuits against viacomcbs and its directors, officers and employees under the a&amp;r bylaws, unless the viacomcbs board of directors consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware (or, if the court of chancery of the state of delaware does not have subject matter jurisdiction, any state or federal court located within the state of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of viacomcbs; any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or stockholder of viacomcbs to viacomcbs or to the viacomcbs stockholders; any action or proceeding asserting a claim against viacomcbs or any director or officer of viacomcbs arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation, or remedy under, any provision of the dgcl, the a&amp;r charter or the a&amp;r bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time); any action or proceeding to interpret, apply, enforce, or determine the validity of any provision or provisions of the a&amp;r charter or the a&amp;r bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), or any amendment thereto or modification thereof; and any action or proceeding asserting a claim against viacomcbs or any director or officer of viacomcbs governed by the internal affairs doctrine; or any action or proceeding to determine the result of any vote or action by written consent of stockholders. to the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims although the viacomcbs stockholders will not be deemed to have waived viacomcbs' compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. the enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' bylaws has been challenged in legal proceedings, and the delaware courts have held that such provisions are valid as they relate to internal affairs claims, such as claims alleging breaches of fiduciary duty or violations of the dgcl, a certificate of incorporation, or bylaws, but are not valid to govern external claims, including claims under the securities act of 1933, as amended. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of the viacomcbs stockholders to commence litigation in a forum that they prefer, which may discourage such lawsuits against viacomcbs and its current or former directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, viacomcbs may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. 36 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. disclosures on our market risk are included in management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition market risk. 65